1 Chronicles 
















1 Chronicles 11 

1 Chronicles 11:1 Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto 
Hebron, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. 

1 Chronicles 11:2 In times past, even when Saul was king, it was 
thou that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and Jehovah thy God 
said unto thee, Thou shalt be shepherd of my people Israel, and thou 
shalt be prince over my people Israel. 

1 Chronicles 11:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king to 
Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before 
Jehovah; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the 
word of Jehovah by Samuel. 

1 Chronicles 11:4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (the 
same is Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were 
there. 

1 Chronicles 11:5 And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou 
shalt not come in hither. Nevertheless David took the stronghold of 
Zion; the same is the city of David. 

1 Chronicles 11:6 And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites 
first shall be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up 
first, and was made chief. 


1 Chronicles 11:7 And David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore they 
called it the city of David. 

1 Chronicles 11:8 And he built the city round about, from Millo 
even round about; and Joab repaired the rest of the city. 

1 Chronicles 11:9 And David waxed greater and greater; for Jehovah 
of hosts was with him. 

1 Chronicles 11:10 Now these are the chief of the mighty men whom 
David had, who showed themselves strong with him in his kingdom, 
together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of 
Jehovah concerning Israel. 

1 Chronicles 11:11 And this is the number of the mighty men whom 
David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the 
thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them at 
one time. 

1 Chronicles 11:12 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the 
Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men. 

1 Chronicles 11:13 He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the 
Philistines were gathered together to battle, where was a plot of 
ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines. 

1 Chronicles 11:14 And they stood in the midst of the plot, and 
defended it, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah saved them by a 
great victory. 

1 Chronicles 11:15 And three of the thirty chief men went down to 
the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the 
Philistines were encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 

1 Chronicles 11:16 And David was then in the stronghold, and the 
garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem. 

1 Chronicles 11:17 And David longed, and said, Oh that one would 
give me water to drink of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the 
gate! 

1 Chronicles 11:18 And the three brake through the host of the 
Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem, that was by 
the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but David would not 
drink thereof, but poured it out unto Jehovah, 


1 Chronicles 11:19 and said, My God forbid it me, that I should do 
this: shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in 
jeopardy? for with [the jeopardy of] their lives they brought it. 
Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty 
men. 

1 Chronicles 11:20 And Abishai, the brother of Joab, he was chief of 
the three; for he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew 
them, and had a name among the three. 

1 Chronicles 11:21 Of the three, he was more honorable than the 
two, and was made their captain: howbeit he attained not to the [first] 
three. 

1 Chronicles 11:22 Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant 
man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he slew the two [sons 
of] Ariel of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of 
a pit in time of snow. 

1 Chronicles 11:23 And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, 
five cubits high; and in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a 
weaver's beam; and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked 
the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own 
spear. 

1 Chronicles 11:24 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, 
and had a name among the three mighty men. 

1 Chronicles 11:25 Behold, he was more honorable than the thirty, 
but he attained not to the [first] three: and David set him over his 
guard. 

1 Chronicles 11:26 Also the mighty men of the armies: Asahel the 
brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem, 

1 Chronicles 11:27 Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 

1 Chronicles 11:28 Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the 
Anathothite, 

1 Chronicles 11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 

1 Chronicles 11:30 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of 
Baanah the Netophathite, 


1 Chronicles 11:31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children 


of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 
1 Chronicles 11:32 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the 
Arbathite, 


1 Chronicles 11:33 Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the 


Shaalbonite, 
1 Chronicles 11:34 the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the 
son of Shagee the Hararite, 


1 Chronicles 11:35 Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the 
son of Ur, 
1 Chronicles 11:36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 


1 Chronicles 11:37 Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, 
1 Chronicles 11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of 
Hagri, 


1 Chronicles 11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the 
armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
1 Chronicles 11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 


1 Chronicles 11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, 
1 Chronicles 11:42 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of 
the Reubenites, and thirty with him, 


1 Chronicles 11:43 Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the 


Mithnite, 
1 Chronicles 11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons 
of Hotham the Aroerite, 


1 Chronicles 11:45 Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, 


the Tizite, 
1 Chronicles 11:46 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, 
the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, 


1 Chronicles 11:47 Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 



1 Chronicles 12 

1 Chronicles 12:1 Now these are they that came to David to Ziklag, 
while he yet kept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish; and 
they were among the mighty men, his helpers in war. 

1 Chronicles 12:2 They were armed with bows, and could use both 
the right hand and the left in slinging stones and in shooting arrows 
from the bow: they were of Saul's brethren of Benjamin. 

1 Chronicles 12:3 The chief was Ahiezer; then Joash, the sons of 
Shemaah the Gibeathite, and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, 
and Beracah, and Jehu the Anathothite, 

1 Chronicles 12:4 and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among 
the thirty, and over the thirty, and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and 
Johanan, and Jozabad the Gederathite, 

1 Chronicles 12:5 Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, 
and Shephatiah the Haruphite, 

1 Chronicles 12:6 Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and 
Jashobeam, the Korahites, 

1 Chronicles 12:7 and Joelah, and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of 
Gedor. 

1 Chronicles 12:8 And of the Gadites there separated themselves 
unto David to the stronghold in the wilderness, mighty men of valor, 
men trained for war, that could handle shield and spear; whose faces 
were like the faces of lions, and they were as swift as the roes upon 
the mountains; 

1 Chronicles 12:9 Ezer the chief, Obadiah the second, Eliab the 
third, 

1 Chronicles 12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 

1 Chronicles 12:11 Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 

1 Chronicles 12:12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 

1 Chronicles 12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh. 


1 Chronicles 12:14 These of the sons of Gad were captains of the 
host: he that was least was equal to a hundred, and the greatest to a 
thousand. 

1 Chronicles 12:15 These are they that went over the Jordan in the 
first month, when it had overflowed all its banks; and they put to 
flight all them of the valleys, both toward the east, and toward the 
west. 

1 Chronicles 12:16 And there came of the children of Benjamin and 
Judah to the stronghold unto David. 

1 Chronicles 12:17 And David went out to meet them, and answered 
and said unto them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, my 
heart shall be knit unto you; but if [ye be come] to betray me to mine 
adversaries, seeing there is no wrong in my hands, the God of our 
fathers look thereon, and rebuke it. 

1 Chronicles 12:18 Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, who was 
chief of the thirty, [and he said], Thine are we, David, and on thy 
side, thou son of Jesse: peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy 
helpers; for thy God helpeth thee. Then David received them, and 
made them captains of the band. 

1 Chronicles 12:19 Of Manasseh also there fell away some to David, 
when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle: but they 
helped them not; for the lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent 
him away, saying, He will fall away to his master Saul to the 
jeopardy of our heads. 

1 Chronicles 12:20 As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of 
Manasseh, Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and 
Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, captains of thousands that were of 
Manasseh. 

1 Chronicles 12:21 And they helped David against the band of 
rovers: for they were all mighty men of valor, and were captains in 
the host. 

1 Chronicles 12:22 For from day to day men came to David to help 
him, until there was a great host, like the host of God. 

1 Chronicles 12:23 And these are the numbers of the heads of them 
that were armed for war, who came to David to Hebron, to turn the 
kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of Jehovah. 


1 Chronicles 12:24 The children of Judah that bare shield and spear 
were six thousand and eight hundred, armed for war. 

1 Chronicles 12:25 Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valor 
for the war, seven thousand and one hundred. 

1 Chronicles 12:26 Of the children of Levi four thousand and six 
hundred. 

1 Chronicles 12:27 And Jehoiada was the leader of [the house of] 
Aaron; and with him were three thousand and seven hundred, 

1 Chronicles 12:28 and Zadok, a young man mighty of valor, and of 
his father's house twenty and two captains. 

1 Chronicles 12:29 And of the children of Benjamin, the brethren of 
Saul, three thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept 
their allegiance to the house of Saul. 

1 Chronicles 12:30 And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand 
and eight hundred, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers' 
houses. 

1 Chronicles 12:31 And of the half-tribe of Manasseh eighteen 
thousand, who were mentioned by name, to come and make David 
king. 

1 Chronicles 12:32 And of the children of Issachar, men that had 
understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, the 
heads of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at their 
commandment. 

1 Chronicles 12:33 Of Zebulun, such as were able to go out in the 
host, that could set the battle in array, with all manner of instruments 
of war, fifty thousand, and that could order [the battle array, and 
were] not of double heart. 

1 Chronicles 12:34 And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with 
them with shield and spear thirty and seven thousand. 

1 Chronicles 12:35 And of the Danites that could set the battle in 
array, twenty and eight thousand and six hundred. 

1 Chronicles 12:36 And of Asher, such as were able to go out in the 
host, that could set the battle in array, forty thousand. 


1 Chronicles 12:37 And on the other side of the Jordan, of the 
Reubenites, and the Gadites, and of the half-tribe of Manasseh, with 
all manner of instruments of war for the battle, a hundred and twenty 
thousand. 

1 Chronicles 12:38 All these being men of war, that could order the 
battle array, came with a perfect heart to Hebron, to make David king 
over all Israel: and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make 
David king. 

1 Chronicles 12:39 And they were there with David three days, 
eating and drinking; for their brethren had made preparation for them. 

1 Chronicles 12:40 Moreover they that were nigh unto them, [even] 
as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, 
and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen, victuals of meal, cakes of 
figs, and clusters of raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep in 
abundance: for there was joy in Israel. 

1 Chronicles 13 

1 Chronicles 13:1 And David consulted with the captains of 
thousands and of hundreds, even with every leader. 

1 Chronicles 13:2 And David said unto all the assembly of Israel, If 
it seem good unto you, and if it be of Jehovah our God, let us send 
abroad every where unto our brethren that are left in all the land of 
Israel, with whom the priests and Levites are in their cities that have 
suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us; 

1 Chronicles 13:3 and let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for 
we sought not unto it in the days of Saul. 

1 Chronicles 13:4 And all the assembly said that they would do so; 
for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. 

1 Chronicles 13:5 So David assembled all Israel together, from the 
Shihor [the brook] of Egypt even unto the entrance of Hamath, to 
bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim. 

1 Chronicles 13:6 And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, [that 
is], to Kiriath-jearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up from 
thence the ark of God Jehovah that sitteth [above] the cherubim, that 
is called by the Name. 


1 Chronicles 13:7 And they carried the ark of God upon a new cart, 
[and brought it] out of the house of Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio 
drove the cart. 

1 Chronicles 13:8 And David and all Israel played before God with 
all their might, even with songs, and with harps, and with psalteries, 
and with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets. 

1 Chronicles 13:9 And when they came unto the threshing-floor of 
Chidon, Uzza put forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen 
stumbled. 

1 Chronicles 13:10 And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against 
Uzza, and he smote him, because he put forth his hand to the ark; and 
there he died before God. 

1 Chronicles 13:11 And David was displeased, because Jehovah had 
broken forth upon Uzza; and he called that place Perez-uzza, unto 
this day. 

1 Chronicles 13:12 And David was afraid of God that day, saying, 
How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? 

1 Chronicles 13:13 So David removed not the ark unto him into the 
city of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the 
Gittite. 

1 Chronicles 13:14 And the ark of God remained with the family of 
Obed-edom in his house three months: and Jehovah blessed the house 
of Obed-edom, and all that he had. 

1 Chronicles 14 

1 Chronicles 14:1 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to 
David, and cedar-trees, and masons, and carpenters, to build him a 
house. 

1 Chronicles 14:2 And David perceived that Jehovah had established 
him king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, for his 
people Israel's sake. 

1 Chronicles 14:3 And David took more wives at Jerusalem; and 
David begat more sons and daughters. 


1 Chronicles 14:4 And these are the names of the children whom he 
had in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, 

1 Chronicles 14:5 and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet, 

1 Chronicles 14:6 and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 

1 Chronicles 14:7 and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet. 

1 Chronicles 14:8 And when the Philistines heard that David was 
anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek 
David: and David heard of it, and went out against them. 

1 Chronicles 14:9 Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in 
the valley of Rephaim. 

1 Chronicles 14:10 And David inquired of God, saying, Shall I go up 
against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And 
Jehovah said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thy hand. 

1 Chronicles 14:11 So they came up to Baal-perazim, and David 
smote them there; and David said, God hath broken mine enemies by 
my hand, like the breach of waters. Therefore they called the name of 
that place Baal-perazim. 

1 Chronicles 14:12 And they left their gods there; and David gave 
commandment, and they were burned with fire. 

1 Chronicles 14:13 And the Philistines yet again made a raid in the 
valley. 

1 Chronicles 14:14 And David inquired again of God; and God said 
unto him, Thou shalt not go up after them: turn away from them, and 
come upon them over against the mulberry-trees. 

1 Chronicles 14:15 And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of 
marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt go out 
to battle; for God is gone out before thee to smite the host of the 
Philistines. 

1 Chronicles 14:16 And David did as God commanded him: and 
they smote the host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer. 

1 Chronicles 14:17 And the fame of David went out into all lands; 
and Jehovah brought the fear of him upon all nations. 


1 Chronicles 15 

1 Chronicles 15:1 And [David] made him houses in the city of 
David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a 
tent. 

1 Chronicles 15:2 Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of 
God but the Levites: for them hath Jehovah chosen to carry the ark of 
God, and to minister unto him for ever. 

1 Chronicles 15:3 And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem, to 
bring up the ark of Jehovah unto its place, which he had prepared for 
it. 

1 Chronicles 15:4 And David gathered together the sons of Aaron, 
and the Levites: 

1 Chronicles 15:5 of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his 
brethren a hundred and twenty; 

1 Chronicles 15:6 of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his 
brethren two hundred and twenty; 

1 Chronicles 15:7 of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his 
brethren a hundred and thirty; 

1 Chronicles 15:8 of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and 
his brethren two hundred; 

1 Chronicles 15:9 of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his 
brethren fourscore; 

1 Chronicles 15:10 of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and 
his brethren a hundred and twelve. 

1 Chronicles 15:11 And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the 
priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, 
and Eliel, and Amminadab, 

1 Chronicles 15:12 and said unto them, Ye are the heads of the 
fathers' [houses] of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your 
brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel, 
unto [the place] that I have prepared for it. 


1 Chronicles 15:13 For because ye [bare it] not at the first, Jehovah 
our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not according 
to the ordinance. 

1 Chronicles 15:14 So the priests and the Levites sanctified 
themselves to bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel. 

1 Chronicles 15:15 And the children of the Levites bare the ark of 
God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses 
commanded according to the word of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 15:16 And David spake to the chief of the Levites to 
appoint their brethren the singers, with instruments of music, 
psalteries and harps and cymbals, sounding aloud and lifting up the 
voice with joy. 

1 Chronicles 15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; 
and of his brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of 
Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; 

1 Chronicles 15:18 and with them their brethren of the second 
degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, 
and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and 
Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the 
doorkeepers. 

1 Chronicles 15:19 So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, [were 
appointed] with cymbals of brass to sound aloud; 

1 Chronicles 15:20 and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and 
Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with 
psalteries set to Alamoth; 

1 Chronicles 15:21 and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, 
and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps set to the 
Sheminith, to lead. 

1 Chronicles 15:22 And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was over 
the song: he instructed about the song, because he was skilful. 

1 Chronicles 15:23 And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers 
for the ark. 


1 Chronicles 15:24 And Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, 
and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did 
blow the trumpets before the ark of God: and Obed-edom and Jehiah 
were doorkeepers for the ark. 

1 Chronicles 15:25 So David, and the elders of Israel, and the 
captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of 
Jehovah out of the house of Obed-edom with joy. 

1 Chronicles 15:26 And it came to pass, when God helped the 
Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, that they 
sacrificed seven bullocks and seven rams. 

1 Chronicles 15:27 And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, 
and all the Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah 
the master of the song [with] the singers: and David had upon him an 
ephod of linen. 

1 Chronicles 15:28 Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant 
of Jehovah with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with 
trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with psalteries and 
harps. 

1 Chronicles 15:29 And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of 
Jehovah came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul 
looked out at the window, and saw king David dancing and playing; 
and she despised him in her heart. 

1 Chronicles 16 

1 Chronicles 16:1 And they brought in the ark of God, and set it in 
the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered 
burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before God. 

1 Chronicles 16:2 And when David had made an end of offering the 
burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the 
name of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 16:3 And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and 
woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a portion [of flesh], and a 
cake of raisins. 

1 Chronicles 16:4 And he appointed certain of the Levites to 
minister before the ark of Jehovah, and to celebrate and to thank and 
praise Jehovah, the God of Israel: 


1 Chronicles 16:5 Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, 
Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and 
Benaiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with psalteries and with harps; 
and Asaph with cymbals, sounding aloud; 

1 Chronicles 16:6 and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets 
continually, before the ark of the covenant of God. 

1 Chronicles 16:7 Then on that day did David first ordain to give 
thanks unto Jehovah, by the hand of Asaph and his brethren. 

1 Chronicles 16:8 O give thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name; 
Make known his doings among the peoples. 

1 Chronicles 16:9 Sing unto him, sing praises unto him; Talk ye of 
all his marvellous works. 

1 Chronicles 16:10 Glory ye in his holy name; Let the heart of them 
rejoice that seek Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 16:11 Seek ye Jehovah and his strength; Seek his face 
evermore. 

1 Chronicles 16:12 Remember his marvellous works that he hath 
done, His wonders, and the judgments of his mouth, 

1 Chronicles 16:13 O ye seed of Israel his servant, Ye children of 
Jacob, his chosen ones. 

1 Chronicles 16:14 He is Jehovah our God; His judgments are in all 
the earth. 

1 Chronicles 16:15 Remember his covenant for ever, The word 
which he commanded to a thousand generations, 

1 Chronicles 16:16 [The covenant] which he made with Abraham, 
And his oath unto Isaac, 

1 Chronicles 16:17 And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a statute, 
To Israel for an everlasting covenant, 

1 Chronicles 16:18 Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, 
The lot of your inheritance; 


1 Chronicles 16:19 When ye were but a few men in number, Yea, 
very few, and sojourners in it; 

1 Chronicles 16:20 And they went about from nation to nation, And 
from one kingdom to another people. 

1 Chronicles 16:21 He suffered no man to do them wrong; Yea, he 
reproved kings for their sakes, 

1 Chronicles 16:22 [Saying], Touch not mine anointed ones, And do 
my prophets no harm. 

1 Chronicles 16:23 Sing unto Jehovah, all the earth; Show forth his 
salvation from day to day. 

1 Chronicles 16:24 Declare his glory among the nations, His 
marvellous works among all the peoples. 

1 Chronicles 16:25 For great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised: 
He also is to be feared above all gods. 

1 Chronicles 16:26 For all the gods of the peoples are idols: But 
Jehovah made the heavens. 

1 Chronicles 16:27 Honor and majesty are before him: Strength and 
gladness are in his place. 

1 Chronicles 16:28 Ascribe unto Jehovah, ye kindreds of the 
peoples, Ascribe unto Jehovah glory and strength; 

1 Chronicles 16:29 Ascribe unto Jehovah the glory due unto his 
name: Bring an offering, and come before him: Worship Jehovah in 
holy array. 

1 Chronicles 16:30 Tremble before him, all the earth: The world also 
is established that it cannot be moved. 

1 Chronicles 16:31 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; 
And let them say among the nations, Jehovah reigneth. 

1 Chronicles 16:32 Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; Let the 
field exult, and all that is therein; 

1 Chronicles 16:33 Then shall the trees of the wood sing for joy 
before Jehovah; For he cometh to judge the earth. 


1 Chronicles 16:34 O give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For 
his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever. 

1 Chronicles 16:35 And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, 
And gather us together and deliver us from the nations, To give 
thanks unto thy holy name, And to triumph in thy praise. 

1 Chronicles 16:36 Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From 
everlasting even to everlasting. And all the people said, Amen, and 
praised Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 16:37 So he left there, before the ark of the covenant of 
Jehovah, Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark 
continually, as every day's work required; 

1 Chronicles 16:38 and Obed-edom with their brethren, threescore 
and eight; Obed-edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be 
doorkeepers; 

1 Chronicles 16:39 and Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, 
before the tabernacle of Jehovah in the high place that was at Gibeon, 

1 Chronicles 16:40 to offer burnt-offerings unto Jehovah upon the 
altar of burnt-offering continually morning and evening, even 
according to all that is written in the law of Jehovah, which he 
commanded unto Israel; 

1 Chronicles 16:41 and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest 
that were chosen, who were mentioned by name, to give thanks to 
Jehovah, because his lovingkindness [endureth] for ever; 

1 Chronicles 16:42 and with them Heman and Jeduthun [with] 
trumpets and cymbals for those that should sound aloud, and [with] 
instruments for the songs of God; and the sons of Jeduthun to be at 
the gate. 

1 Chronicles 16:43 And all the people departed every man to his 
house: and David returned to bless his house. 


1 Chronicles 17 

1 Chronicles 17:1 And it came to pass, when David dwelt in his 
house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house 
of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Jehovah [dwelleth] under 
curtains. 

1 Chronicles 17:2 And Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thy 
heart; for God is with thee. 

1 Chronicles 17:3 And it came to pass the same night, that the word 
of God came to Nathan, saying, 

1 Chronicles 17:4 Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith Jehovah, 
Thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in: 

1 Chronicles 17:5 for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I 
brought up Israel, unto this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and 
from [one] tabernacle [to another]. 

1 Chronicles 17:6 In all places wherein I have walked with all Israel, 
spake I a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded 
to be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have ye not built me a 
house of cedar? 

1 Chronicles 17:7 Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant 
David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, 
from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my 
people Israel: 

1 Chronicles 17:8 and I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast 
gone, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will 
make thee a name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the 
earth. 

1 Chronicles 17:9 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, 
and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be 
moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them 
any more, as at the first, 

1 Chronicles 17:10 and [as] from the day that I commanded judges 
to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all thine enemies. 
Moreover I tell thee that Jehovah will build thee a house. 


1 Chronicles 17:11 And it shall come to pass, when thy days are 
fulfilled that thou must go to be with thy fathers, that I will set up thy 
seed after thee, who shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his 
kingdom. 

1 Chronicles 17:12 He shall build me a house, and I will establish 
his throne for ever. 

1 Chronicles 17:13 I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I 
will not take my lovingkindness away from him, as I took it from him 
that was before thee; 

1 Chronicles 17:14 but I will settle him in my house and in my 
kingdom for ever; and his throne shall be established for ever. 

1 Chronicles 17:15 According to all these words, and according to 
all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David. 

1 Chronicles 17:16 Then David the king went in, and sat before 
Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Jehovah God, and what is my 
house, that thou hast brought me thus far? 

1 Chronicles 17:17 And this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God; 
but thou hast spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, 
and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, 
O Jehovah God. 

1 Chronicles 17:18 What can David [say] yet more unto thee 
concerning the honor which is done to thy servant? for thou knowest 
thy servant. 

1 Chronicles 17:19 O Jehovah, for thy servant's sake, and according 
to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make 
known all [these] great things. 

1 Chronicles 17:20 O Jehovah, there is none like thee, neither is 
there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with 
our ears. 

1 Chronicles 17:21 And what one nation in the earth is like thy 
people Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, 
to make thee a name by great and terrible things, in driving out 
nations from before thy people, whom thou redeemest out of Egypt? 

1 Chronicles 17:22 For thy people Israel didst thou make thine own 
people for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God. 


1 Chronicles 17:23 And now, O Jehovah, let the word that thou hast 
spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, be 
established for ever, and do as thou hast spoken. 

1 Chronicles 17:24 And let thy name be established and magnified 
for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to 
Israel: and the house of David thy servant is established before thee. 

1 Chronicles 17:25 For thou, O my God, hast revealed to thy servant 
that thou wilt build him a house: therefore hath thy servant found [in 
his heart] to pray before thee. 

1 Chronicles 17:26 And now, O Jehovah, thou art God, and hast 
promised this good thing unto thy servant: 

1 Chronicles 17:27 and now it hath pleased thee to bless the house of 
thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O 
Jehovah, hast blessed, and it is blessed for ever. 

1 Chronicles 18 

1 Chronicles 18:1 And after this it came to pass, that David smote 
the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of 
the hand of the Philistines. 

1 Chronicles 18:2 And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became 
servants to David, and brought tribute. 

1 Chronicles 18:3 And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto 
Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates. 

1 Chronicles 18:4 And David took from him a thousand chariots, 
and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and 
David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a 
hundred chariots. 

1 Chronicles 18:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to 
succor Hadarezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and 
twenty thousand men. 

1 Chronicles 18:6 Then David put [garrisons] in Syria of Damascus; 
and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And 
Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went. 


1 Chronicles 18:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on 
the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 

1 Chronicles 18:8 And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of 
Hadarezer, David took very much brass, wherewith Solomon made 
the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass. 

1 Chronicles 18:9 And when Tou king of Hamath heard that David 
had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah, 

1 Chronicles 18:10 he sent Hadoram his son to king David, to salute 
him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and 
smitten him; (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou;) and [he had with 
him] all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass. 

1 Chronicles 18:11 These also did king David dedicate unto 
Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the 
nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of 
Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 

1 Chronicles 18:12 Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote of 
the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand. 

1 Chronicles 18:13 And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the 
Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to 
David whithersoever he went. 

1 Chronicles 18:14 And David reigned over all Israel; and he 
executed justice and righteousness unto all his people. 

1 Chronicles 18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; 
and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 

1 Chronicles 18:16 and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the 
son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe; 

1 Chronicles 18:17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the 
Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief 
about the king. 


1 Chronicles 19 

1 Chronicles 19:1 And it came to pass after this, that Nahash the 
king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead. 

1 Chronicles 19:2 And David said, I will show kindness unto Hanun 
the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me. So 
David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. And 
David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon to 
Hanun, to comfort him. 

1 Chronicles 19:3 But the princes of the children of Ammon said to 
Hanun, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, in that he 
hath sent comforters unto thee? are not his servants come unto thee to 
search, and to overthrow, and to spy out the land? 

1 Chronicles 19:4 So Hanun took David's servants, and shaved them, 
and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and 
sent them away. 

1 Chronicles 19:5 Then there went certain persons, and told David 
how the men were served. And he sent to meet them; for the men 
were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your 
beards be grown, and then return. 

1 Chronicles 19:6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they 
had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the children of 
Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and 
horsemen out of Mesopotamia, and out of Arammaacah, and out of 
Zobah. 

1 Chronicles 19:7 So they hired them thirty and two thousand 
chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people, who came and 
encamped before Medeba. And the children of Ammon gathered 
themselves together from their cities, and came to battle. 

1 Chronicles 19:8 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all 
the host of the mighty men. 

1 Chronicles 19:9 And the children of Ammon came out, and put the 
battle in array at the gate of the city: and the kings that were come 
were by themselves in the field. 


1 Chronicles 19:10 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set 
against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of 
Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians. 

1 Chronicles 19:11 And the rest of the people he committed into the 
hand of Abishai his brother; and they put themselves in array against 
the children of Ammon. 

1 Chronicles 19:12 And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, 
then thou shalt help me; but if the children of Ammon be too strong 
for thee, then I will help thee. 

1 Chronicles 19:13 Be of good courage, and let us play the man for 
our people, and for the cities of our God: and Jehovah do that which 
seemeth him good. 

1 Chronicles 19:14 So Joab and the people that were with him drew 
nigh before the Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him. 

1 Chronicles 19:15 And when the children of Ammon saw that the 
Syrians were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and 
entered into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem. 

1 Chronicles 19:16 And when the Syrians saw that they were put to 
the worse before Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the 
Syrians that were beyond the River, with Shophach the captain of the 
host of Hadarezer at their head. 

1 Chronicles 19:17 And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel 
together, and passed over the Jordan, and came upon them, and set 
the battle in array against them. So when David had put the battle in 
array against the Syrians, they fought with him. 

1 Chronicles 19:18 And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David 
slew of the Syrians [the men of] seven thousand chariots, and forty 
thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host. 

1 Chronicles 19:19 And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that 
they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with David, 
and served him: neither would the Syrians help the children of 
Ammon any more. 


1 Chronicles 20 

1 Chronicles 20:1 And it came to pass, at the time of the return of 
the year, at the time when kings go out [to battle], that Joab led forth 
the army, and wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and 
came and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab 
smote Rabbah, and overthrew it. 

1 Chronicles 20:2 And David took the crown of their king from off 
his head, and found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were 
precious stones in it; and it was set upon David's head: and he 
brought forth the spoil of the city, exceeding much. 

1 Chronicles 20:3 And he brought forth the people that were therein, 
and cut [them] with saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. 
And thus did David unto all the cities of the children of Ammon. And 
David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 

1 Chronicles 20:4 And it came to pass after this, that there arose war 
at Gezer with the Philistines: then Sibbecai the Hushathite slew 
Sippai, of the sons of the giant; and they were subdued. 

1 Chronicles 20:5 And there was again war with the Philistines; and 
Elhanan the son of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, 
the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. 

1 Chronicles 20:6 And there was again war at Gath, where was a 
man of great stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, 
six [on each hand], and six [on each foot]; and he also was born unto 
the giant. 

1 Chronicles 20:7 And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of 
Shimea David's brother slew him. 

1 Chronicles 20:8 These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they 
fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants. 


1 Chronicles 21 

1 Chronicles 21:1 And Satan stood up against Israel, and moved 
David to number Israel. 

1 Chronicles 21:2 And David said to Joab and to the princes of the 
people, Go, number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring 
me word, that I may know the sum of them. 

1 Chronicles 21:3 And Joab said, Jehovah make his people a 
hundred times as many as they are: but, my lord the king, are they not 
all my lord's servants? why doth my lord require this thing? why will 
he be a cause of guilt unto Israel? 

1 Chronicles 21:4 Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against 
Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and 
came to Jerusalem. 

1 Chronicles 21:5 And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the 
people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand 
and a hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah was four 
hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword. 

1 Chronicles 21:6 But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among 
them; for the king's word was abominable to Joab. 

1 Chronicles 21:7 And God was displeased with this thing; therefore 
he smote Israel. 

1 Chronicles 21:8 And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, 
in that I have done this thing: but now, put away, I beseech thee, the 
iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly. 

1 Chronicles 21:9 And Jehovah spake unto Gad, David's seer, 
saying, 

1 Chronicles 21:10 Go and speak unto David, saying, Thus saith 
Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may 
do it unto thee. 

1 Chronicles 21:11 So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus 
saith Jehovah, Take which thou wilt: 


1 Chronicles 21:12 either three years of famine; or three months to 
be consumed before thy foes, while the sword of thine enemies 
overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of Jehovah, even 
pestilence in the land, and the angel of Jehovah destroying 
throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore consider what 
answer I shall return to him that sent me. 

1 Chronicles 21:13 And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: 
let me fall, I pray, into the hand of Jehovah; for very great are his 
mercies: and let me not fall into the hand of man. 

1 Chronicles 21:14 So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel; and 
there fell of Israel seventy thousand men. 

1 Chronicles 21:15 And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy 
it: and as he was about to destroy, Jehovah beheld, and he repented 
him of the evil, and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now 
stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was standing by the 
threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 

1 Chronicles 21:16 And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel 
of Jehovah standing between earth and heaven, having a drawn sword 
in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, 
clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces. 

1 Chronicles 21:17 And David said unto God, Is it not I that 
commanded the people to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned 
and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? let 
thy hand, I pray thee, O Jehovah my God, be against me, and against 
my father's house; but not against thy people, that they should be 
plagued. 

1 Chronicles 21:18 Then the angel of Jehovah commanded Gad to 
say to David, that David should go up, and rear an altar unto Jehovah 
in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 

1 Chronicles 21:19 And David went up at the saying of Gad, which 
he spake in the name of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 21:20 And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and 
his four sons that were with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was 
threshing wheat. 

1 Chronicles 21:21 And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and 
saw David, and went out of the threshing-floor, and bowed himself to 
David with his face to the ground. 


1 Chronicles 21:22 Then David said to Ornan, Give me the place of 
this threshing-floor, that I may build thereon an altar unto Jehovah: 
for the full price shalt thou give it me, that the plague may be stayed 
from the people. 

1 Chronicles 21:23 And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and 
let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give [thee] 
the oxen for burnt-offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, 
and the wheat for the meal-offering; I give it all. 

1 Chronicles 21:24 And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will 
verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is thine 
for Jehovah, nor offer a burnt-offering without cost. 

1 Chronicles 21:25 So David gave to Ornan for the place six 
hundred shekels of gold by weight. 

1 Chronicles 21:26 And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and 
offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and called upon Jehovah; 
and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burntoffering. 


1 Chronicles 21:27 And Jehovah commanded the angel; and he put 
up his sword again into the sheath thereof. 

1 Chronicles 21:28 At that time, when David saw that Jehovah had 
answered him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he 
sacrificed there. 

1 Chronicles 21:29 For the tabernacle of Jehovah, which Moses 
made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt-offering, were at that 
time in the high place at Gibeon. 

1 Chronicles 21:30 But David could not go before it to inquire of 
God; for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 22 

1 Chronicles 22:1 Then David said, This is the house of Jehovah 
God, and this is the altar of burnt-offering for Israel. 

1 Chronicles 22:2 And David commanded to gather together the 
sojourners that were in the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew 
wrought stones to build the house of God. 


1 Chronicles 22:3 And David prepared iron in abundance for the 
nails for the doors of the gates, and for the couplings; and brass in 
abundance without weight; 

1 Chronicles 22:4 and cedar-trees without number: for the Sidonians 
and they of Tyre brought cedar-trees in abundance to David. 

1 Chronicles 22:5 And David said, Solomon my son is young and 
tender, and the house that is to be builded for Jehovah must be 
exceeding magnificent, of fame and of glory throughout all countries: 
I will therefore make preparation for it. So David prepared 
abundantly before his death. 

1 Chronicles 22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged 
him to build a house for Jehovah, the God of Israel. 

1 Chronicles 22:7 And David said to Solomon his son, As for me, it 
was in my heart to build a house unto the name of Jehovah my God. 

1 Chronicles 22:8 But the word of Jehovah came to me, saying, 
Thou hast shed blood abundantly, and hast made great wars: thou 
shalt not build a house unto my name, because thou hast shed much 
blood upon the earth in my sight. 

1 Chronicles 22:9 Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a 
man of rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies round 
about; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and 
quietness unto Israel in his days: 

1 Chronicles 22:10 he shall build a house for my name; and he shall 
be my son, and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of 
his kingdom over Israel for ever. 

1 Chronicles 22:11 Now, my son, Jehovah be with thee; and prosper 
thou, and build the house of Jehovah thy God, as he hath spoken 
concerning thee. 

1 Chronicles 22:12 Only Jehovah give thee discretion and 
understanding, and give thee charge concerning Israel; that so thou 
mayest keep the law of Jehovah thy God. 

1 Chronicles 22:13 Then shalt thou prosper, if thou observe to do the 
statutes and the ordinances which Jehovah charged Moses with 
concerning Israel: be strong, and of good courage; fear not, neither be 
dismayed. 


1 Chronicles 22:14 Now, behold, in my affliction I have prepared for 
the house of Jehovah a hundred thousand talents of gold, and a 
thousand thousand talents of silver, and of brass and iron without 
weight; for it is in abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; 
and thou mayest add thereto. 

1 Chronicles 22:15 Moreover there are workmen with thee in 
abundance, hewers and workers of stone and timber, and all men that 
are skilful in every manner of work: 

1 Chronicles 22:16 of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, 
there is no number. Arise and be doing, and Jehovah be with thee. 

1 Chronicles 22:17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel 
to help Solomon his son, [saying], 

1 Chronicles 22:18 Is not Jehovah your God with you? and hath he 
not given you rest on every side? for he hath delivered the inhabitants 
of the land into my hand; and the land is subdued before Jehovah, and 
before his people. 

1 Chronicles 22:19 Now set your heart and your soul to seek after 
Jehovah your God; arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of 
Jehovah God, to bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and the 
holy vessels of God, into the house that is to be built to the name of 
Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 23 

1 Chronicles 23:1 Now David was old and full of days; and he made 
Solomon his son king over Israel. 

1 Chronicles 23:2 And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, 
with the priests and the Levites. 

1 Chronicles 23:3 And the Levites were numbered from thirty years 
old and upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was 
thirty and eight thousand. 

1 Chronicles 23:4 Of these, twenty and four thousand were to 
oversee the work of the house of Jehovah; and six thousand were 
officers and judges; 


1 Chronicles 23:5 and four thousand were doorkeepers; and four 
thousand praised Jehovah with the instruments which I made, [said 
David], to praise therewith. 

1 Chronicles 23:6 And David divided them into courses according to 
the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 

1 Chronicles 23:7 Of the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei. 

1 Chronicles 23:8 The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, 
and Joel, three. 

1 Chronicles 23:9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, and Haziel, and 
Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers' [houses] of Ladan. 

1 Chronicles 23:10 And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, 
and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei. 

1 Chronicles 23:11 And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: 
but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons; therefore they became a 
fathers' house in one reckoning. 

1 Chronicles 23:12 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and 
Uzziel, four. 

1 Chronicles 23:13 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and 
Aaron was separated, that he should sanctify the most holy things, he 
and his sons, for ever, to burn incense before Jehovah, to minister 
unto him, and to bless in his name, for ever. 

1 Chronicles 23:14 But as for Moses the man of God, his sons were 
named among the tribe of Levi. 

1 Chronicles 23:15 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 

1 Chronicles 23:16 The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief. 

1 Chronicles 23:17 And the sons of Eliezer were: Rehabiah the 
chief; and Eliezer had no other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were 
very many. 

1 Chronicles 23:18 The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief. 

1 Chronicles 23:19 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah 
the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 


1 Chronicles 23:20 The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief, and Isshiah 
the second. 

1 Chronicles 23:21 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons 
of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 

1 Chronicles 23:22 And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters 
only: and their brethren the sons of Kish took them [to wife]. 

1 Chronicles 23:23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and 
Jeremoth, three. 

1 Chronicles 23:24 These were the sons of Levi after their fathers' 
houses, even the heads of the fathers' [houses] of those of them that 
were counted, in the number of names by their polls, who did the 
work for the service of the house of Jehovah, from twenty years old 
and upward. 

1 Chronicles 23:25 For David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath 
given rest unto his people; and he dwelleth in Jerusalem for ever: 

1 Chronicles 23:26 and also the Levites shall no more have need to 
carry the tabernacle and all the vessels of it for the service thereof. 

1 Chronicles 23:27 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi 
were numbered, from twenty years old and upward. 

1 Chronicles 23:28 For their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron 
for the service of the house of Jehovah, in the courts, and in the 
chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, even the work of 
the service of the house of God; 

1 Chronicles 23:29 for the showbread also, and for the fine flour for 
a meal-offering, whether of unleavened wafers, or of that which is 
baked in the pan, or of that which is soaked, and for all manner of 
measure and size; 

1 Chronicles 23:30 and to stand every morning to thank and praise 
Jehovah, and likewise at even; 

1 Chronicles 23:31 and to offer all burnt-offerings unto Jehovah, on 
the sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, in number 
according to the ordinance concerning them, continually before 
Jehovah; 


1 Chronicles 23:32 and that they should keep the charge of the tent 
of meeting, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the 
sons of Aaron their brethren, for the service of the house of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 24 

1 Chronicles 24:1 And the courses of the sons of Aaron [were these]. 
The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 

1 Chronicles 24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and 
had no children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's 
office. 

1 Chronicles 24:3 And David with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and 
Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their 
ordering in their service. 

1 Chronicles 24:4 And there were more chief men found of the sons 
of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar; and [thus] were they divided: 
of the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen, heads of fathers' houses; 
and of the sons of Ithamar, according to their fathers' houses, eight. 

1 Chronicles 24:5 Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with 
another; for there were princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, 
both of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar. 

1 Chronicles 24:6 And Shemaiah the son of Nethanel the scribe, who 
was of the Levites, wrote them in the presence of the king, and the 
princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, 
and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the priests and of the Levites; 
one fathers' house being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar. 

1 Chronicles 24:7 Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the 
second to Jedaiah, 

1 Chronicles 24:8 the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 

1 Chronicles 24:9 the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 

1 Chronicles 24:10 the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, 

1 Chronicles 24:11 the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 

1 Chronicles 24:12 the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 


1 Chronicles 24:13 the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to 
Jeshebeab, 

1 Chronicles 24:14 the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 

1 Chronicles 24:15 the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to 
Happizzez, 

1 Chronicles 24:16 the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to 
Jehezkel, 

1 Chronicles 24:17 the one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and 
twentieth to Gamul, 

1 Chronicles 24:18 the three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four and 
twentieth to Maaziah. 

1 Chronicles 24:19 This was the ordering of them in their service, to 
come into the house of Jehovah according to the ordinance [given] 
unto them by Aaron their father, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, had 
commanded him. 

1 Chronicles 24:20 And of the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of 
Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah. 

1 Chronicles 24:21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah 
the chief. 

1 Chronicles 24:22 Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of 
Shelomoth, Jahath. 

1 Chronicles 24:23 And the sons [of Hebron]: Jeriah [the chief], 
Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 

1 Chronicles 24:24 The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, 
Shamir. 

1 Chronicles 24:25 The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of 
Isshiah, Zechariah. 

1 Chronicles 24:26 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; the sons 
of Jaaziah: Beno. 

1 Chronicles 24:27 The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, and 
Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. 


1 Chronicles 24:28 Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. 

1 Chronicles 24:29 Of Kish; the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel. 

1 Chronicles 24:30 And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and 
Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after their fathers' 
houses. 

1 Chronicles 24:31 These likewise cast lots even as their brethren 
the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and 
Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' [houses] of the priests and of 
the Levites; the fathers' [houses] of the chief even as those of his 
younger brother. 

1 Chronicles 25 

1 Chronicles 25:1 Moreover David and the captains of the host set 
apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and 
of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and 
with cymbals: and the number of them that did the work according to 
their service was: 

1 Chronicles 25:2 of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and 
Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph, under the hand of 
Asaph, who prophesied after the order of the king. 

1 Chronicles 25:3 Of Jeduthun; the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and 
Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of 
their father Jeduthun with the harp, who prophesied in giving thanks 
and praising Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 25:4 Of Heman; the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, 
Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, 
Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, 
Hothir, Mahazioth. 

1 Chronicles 25:5 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer 
in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman 
fourteen sons and three daughters. 

1 Chronicles 25:6 All these were under the hands of their father for 
song in the house of Jehovah, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for 
the service of the house of God; Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman being 
under the order of the king. 


1 Chronicles 25:7 And the number of them, with their brethren that 
were instructed in singing unto Jehovah, even all that were skilful, 
was two hundred fourscore and eight. 

1 Chronicles 25:8 And they cast lots for their offices, all alike, as 
well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar. 

1 Chronicles 25:9 Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: 
the second to Gedaliah; he and his brethren and sons were twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:10 the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:11 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:12 the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:13 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:14 the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:15 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:16 the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:17 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:18 the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brethren, 
twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:19 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:20 for the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:21 for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 


1 Chronicles 25:22 for the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:23 for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:24 for the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and 
his brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:25 for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:26 for the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:27 for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his 
brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:28 for the one and twentieth to Hothir, his sons and 
his brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:29 for the two and twentieth to Giddalti, his sons 
and his brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:30 for the three and twentieth to Mahazioth, his sons 
and his brethren, twelve: 

1 Chronicles 25:31 for the four and twentieth to Romamtiezer, his 
sons and his brethren, twelve. 

1 Chronicles 26 

1 Chronicles 26:1 For the courses of the doorkeepers: of the 
Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 

1 Chronicles 26:2 And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, 
Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 

1 Chronicles 26:3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the 
seventh. 

1 Chronicles 26:4 And Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, 
Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and 
Nethanel the fifth, 


1 Chronicles 26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai 
the eighth; for God blessed him. 

1 Chronicles 26:6 Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that 
ruled over the house of their father; for they were mighty men of 
valor. 

1 Chronicles 26:7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and 
Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were valiant men, Elihu, and 
Semachiah. 

1 Chronicles 26:8 All these were of the sons of Obed-edom: they 
and their sons and their brethren, able men in strength for the service; 
threescore and two of Obed-edom. 

1 Chronicles 26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, valiant 
men, eighteen. 

1 Chronicles 26:10 Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons: 
Shimri the chief, (for though he was not the first-born, yet his father 
made him chief), 

1 Chronicles 26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah 
the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen. 

1 Chronicles 26:12 Of these were the courses of the doorkeepers, 
even of the chief men, having offices like their brethren, to minister 
in the house of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 26:13 And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, 
according to their fathers' houses, for every gate. 

1 Chronicles 26:14 And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for 
Zechariah his son, a discreet counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot 
came out northward. 

1 Chronicles 26:15 To Obed-edom southward; and to his sons the 
store-house. 

1 Chronicles 26:16 To Shuppim and Hosah westward, by the gate of 
Shallecheth, at the causeway that goeth up, watch against watch. 

1 Chronicles 26:17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, 
southward four a day, and for the store-house two and two. 


1 Chronicles 26:18 For Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and 
two at Parbar. 

1 Chronicles 26:19 These were the courses of the doorkeepers; of 
the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari. 

1 Chronicles 26:20 And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures 
of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things. 

1 Chronicles 26:21 The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites 
belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers' [houses] belonging to 
Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli. 

1 Chronicles 26:22 The sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, 
over the treasures of the house of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 26:23 Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the 
Hebronites, of the Uzzielites: 

1 Chronicles 26:24 and Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of 
Moses, was ruler over the treasures. 

1 Chronicles 26:25 And his brethren: of Eliezer [came] Rehabiah his 
son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and 
Shelomoth his son. 

1 Chronicles 26:26 This Shelomoth and his brethren were over all 
the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the 
heads of the fathers' [houses], the captains over thousands and 
hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated. 

1 Chronicles 26:27 Out of the spoil won in battles did they dedicate 
to repair the house of Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 26:28 And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of 
Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had 
dedicated, whosoever had dedicated anything, it was under the hand 
of Shelomoth, and of his brethren. 

1 Chronicles 26:29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for 
the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges. 

1 Chronicles 26:30 Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, 
men of valor, a thousand and seven hundred, had the oversight of 
Israel beyond the Jordan westward, for all the business of Jehovah, 
and for the service of the king. 


1 Chronicles 26:31 Of the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even of 
the Hebronites, according to their generations by fathers' [houses]. In 
the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there 
were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead. 

1 Chronicles 26:32 And his brethren, men of valor, were two 
thousand and seven hundred, heads of fathers' [houses], whom king 
David made overseers over the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the 
half-tribe of the Manassites, for every matter pertaining to God, and 
for the affairs of the king. 

1 Chronicles 27 

1 Chronicles 27:1 Now the children of Israel after their number, [to 
wit], the heads of fathers' [houses] and the captains of thousands and 
of hundreds, and their officers that served the king, in any matter of 
the courses which came in and went out month by month throughout 
all the months of the year-of every course were twenty and four 
thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:2 Over the first course for the first month was 
Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four 
thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:3 [He was] of the children of Perez, the chief of all 
the captains of the host for the first month. 

1 Chronicles 27:4 And over the course of the second month was 
Dodai the Ahohite, and his course; and Mikloth the ruler: and in his 
course were twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:5 The third captain of the host for the third month 
was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, chief: and in his course 
were twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:6 This is that Benaiah, who was the mighty man of 
the thirty, and over the thirty: and [of] his course was Ammizabad his 
son. 

1 Chronicles 27:7 The fourth [captain] for the fourth month was 
Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his 
course were twenty and four thousand. 


1 Chronicles 27:8 The fifth captain for this fifth month was 
Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course were twenty and four 
thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:9 The sixth [captain] for the sixth month was Ira the 
son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four 
thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:10 The seventh [captain] for the seventh month was 
Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were 
twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:11 The eighth [captain] for the eighth month was 
Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites: and in his course were 
twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:12 The ninth [captain] for the ninth month was 
Abiezer the Anathothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were 
twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:13 The tenth [captain] for the tenth month was 
Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites: and in his course were 
twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:14 The eleventh [captain] for the eleventh month 
was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his 
course were twenty and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:15 The twelfth [captain] for the twelfth month was 
Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty 
and four thousand. 

1 Chronicles 27:16 Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: of the 
Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri the ruler: of the Simeonites, 
Shephatiah the son of Maacah: 

1 Chronicles 27:17 of Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: of Aaron, 
Zadok: 

1 Chronicles 27:18 of Judah, Elihu, one of the brethren of David: of 
Issachar, Omri the son of Michael: 

1 Chronicles 27:19 of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of 
Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel: 


1 Chronicles 27:20 of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of 
Azaziah: of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah: 

1 Chronicles 27:21 of the half -[tribe] of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo 
the son of Zechariah: of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner: 

1 Chronicles 27:22 of Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were 
the captains of the tribes of Israel. 

1 Chronicles 27:23 But David took not the number of them from 
twenty years old and under, because Jehovah had said he would 
increase Israel like to the stars of heaven. 

1 Chronicles 27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but 
finished not; and there came wrath for this upon Israel; neither was 
the number put into the account in the chronicles of king David. 

1 Chronicles 27:25 And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the 
son of Adiel: and over the treasures in the fields, in the cities, and in 
the villages, and in the castles, was Jonathan the son of Uzziah: 

1 Chronicles 27:26 And over them that did the work of the field for 
tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub: 

1 Chronicles 27:27 and over the vineyards was Shimei the 
Ramathite: and over the increase of the vineyards for the wine-cellars 
was Zabdi the Shiphmite: 

1 Chronicles 27:28 and over the olive-trees and the sycomore-trees 
that were in the lowland was Baal-hanan the Gederite: and over the 
cellars of oil was Joash: 

1 Chronicles 27:29 and over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai 
the Sharonite: and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat 
the son of Adlai: 

1 Chronicles 27:30 and over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite: and 
over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite: and over the flocks was 
Jaziz the Hagrite. 

1 Chronicles 27:31 All these were the rulers of the substance which 
was king David's. 

1 Chronicles 27:32 Also Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counsellor, a 
man of understanding, and a scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni 
was with the king's sons: 


1 Chronicles 27:33 And Ahithophel was the king's counsellor: and 
Hushai the Archite was the king's friend: 

1 Chronicles 27:34 and after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of 
Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the captain of the king's host was Joab. 

1 Chronicles 28 

1 Chronicles 28:1 And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the 
princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies that served 
the king by course, and the captains of thousands, and the captains of 
hundreds, and the rulers over all the substance and possessions of the 
king and of his sons, with the officers, and the mighty men, even all 
the mighty men of valor, unto Jerusalem. 

1 Chronicles 28:2 Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and 
said, Hear me, my brethren, and my people: as for me, it was in my 
heart to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, 
and for the footstool of our God; and I had made ready for the 
building. 

1 Chronicles 28:3 But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build a 
house for my name, because thou art a man of war, and hast shed 
blood. 

1 Chronicles 28:4 Howbeit Jehovah, the God of Israel, chose me out 
of all the house of my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he 
hath chosen Judah to be prince; and in the house of Judah, the house 
of my father; and among the sons of my father he took pleasure in me 
to make me king over all Israel; 

1 Chronicles 28:5 And of all my sons (for Jehovah hath given me 
many sons), he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of 
the kingdom of Jehovah over Israel. 

1 Chronicles 28:6 And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall 
build my house and my courts; for I have chosen him to be my son, 
and I will be his father. 

1 Chronicles 28:7 And I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be 
constant to do my commandments and mine ordinances, as at this 
day. 


1 Chronicles 28:8 Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the 
assembly of Jehovah, and in the audience of our God, observe and 
seek out all the commandments of Jehovah your God; that ye may 
possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children 
after you for ever. 

1 Chronicles 28:9 And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of 
thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing 
mind; for Jehovah searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the 
imaginations of the thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of 
thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever. 

1 Chronicles 28:10 Take heed now; for Jehovah hath chosen thee to 
build a house for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it. 

1 Chronicles 28:11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern 
of the porch [of the temple], and of the houses thereof, and of the 
treasuries thereof, and of the upper rooms thereof, and of the inner 
chambers thereof, and of the place of the mercy-seat; 

1 Chronicles 28:12 and the pattern of all that he had by the Spirit, for 
the courts of the house of Jehovah, and for all the chambers round 
about, for the treasuries of the house of God, and for the treasuries of 
the dedicated things; 

1 Chronicles 28:13 also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, 
and for all the work of the service of the house of Jehovah, and for all 
the vessels of service in the house of Jehovah; 

1 Chronicles 28:14 of gold by weight for the [vessels of] gold, for all 
vessels of every kind of service; [of silver] for all the vessels of silver 
by weight, for all vessels of every kind of service; 

1 Chronicles 28:15 by weight also for the candlesticks of gold, and 
for the lamps thereof, of gold, by weight for every candlestick and for 
the lamps thereof; and for the candlesticks of silver, [silver] by 
weight for [every] candlestick and for the lamps thereof, according to 
the use of every candlestick; 

1 Chronicles 28:16 and the gold by weight for the tables of 
showbread, for every table; and silver for the tables of silver; 

1 Chronicles 28:17 and the flesh-hooks, and the basins, and the cups, 
of pure gold; and for the golden bowls by weight for every bowl; and 
for the silver bowls by weight for every bowl; 


1 Chronicles 28:18 and for the altar of incense refined gold by 
weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot, [even] the cherubim, 
that spread out [their wings], and covered the ark of the covenant of 
Jehovah. 

1 Chronicles 28:19 All this, [said David], have I been made to 
understand in writing from the hand of Jehovah, even all the works of 
this pattern. 

1 Chronicles 28:20 And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong 
and of good courage, and do it: fear not, nor be dismayed; for 
Jehovah God, even my God, is with thee; he will not fail thee, nor 
forsake thee, until all the work for the service of the house of Jehovah 
be finished. 

1 Chronicles 28:21 And, behold, there are the courses of the priests 
and the Levites, for all the service of the house of God: and there 
shall be with thee in all manner of work every willing man that hath 
skill, for any manner of service: also the captains and all the people 
will be wholly at thy commandment. 

1 Chronicles 29 

1 Chronicles 29:1 And David the king said unto all the assembly, 
Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and 
tender, and the work is great; for the palace is not for man, but for 
Jehovah God. 

1 Chronicles 29:2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the 
house of my God the gold for the [things of] gold, and the silver for 
the [things of] silver, and the brass for the [things of] brass, the iron 
for the [things of] iron, and wood for the [things of] wood; onyx 
stones, and [stones] to be set, stones for inlaid work, and of divers 
colors, and all manner of precious stones, and marble stones in 
abundance. 

1 Chronicles 29:3 Moreover also, because I have set my affection on 
the house of my God, seeing that I have a treasure of mine own of 
gold and silver, I give it unto the house of my God, over and above 
all that I have prepared for the holy house, 

1 Chronicles 29:4 even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of 
Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, wherewith to 
overlay the walls of the houses; 


1 Chronicles 29:5 of gold for the [things of] gold, and of silver for 
the [things of] silver, and for all manner of work [to be made] by the 
hands of artificers. Who then offereth willingly to consecrate himself 
this day unto Jehovah? 

1 Chronicles 29:6 Then the princes of the fathers' [houses], and the 
princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of 
hundreds, with the rulers over the king's work, offered willingly; 

1 Chronicles 29:7 and they gave for the service of the house of God 
of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand darics, and of silver 
ten thousand talents, and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and of 
iron a hundred thousand talents. 

1 Chronicles 29:8 And they with whom [precious] stones were found 
gave them to the treasure of the house of Jehovah, under the hand of 
Jehiel the Gershonite. 

1 Chronicles 29:9 Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered 
willingly, because with a perfect heart they offered willingly to 
Jehovah: and David the king also rejoiced with great joy. 

1 Chronicles 29:10 Wherefore David blessed Jehovah before all the 
assembly; and David said, Blessed be thou, O Jehovah, the God of 
Israel our father, for ever and ever. 

1 Chronicles 29:11 Thine, O Jehovah, is the greatness, and the 
power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is 
in the heavens and in the earth [is thine]; thine is the kingdom, O 
Jehovah, and thou art exalted as head above all. 

1 Chronicles 29:12 Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou 
rulest over all; and in thy hand is power and might; and in thy hand it 
is to make great, and to give strength unto all. 

1 Chronicles 29:13 Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and 
praise thy glorious name. 

1 Chronicles 29:14 But who am I, and what is my people, that we 
should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come 
of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. 

1 Chronicles 29:15 For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, 
as all our fathers were: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and 
there is no abiding. 


1 Chronicles 29:16 O Jehovah our God, all this store that we have 
prepared to build thee a house for thy holy name cometh of thy hand, 
and is all thine own. 

1 Chronicles 29:17 I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, 
and hast pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my 
heart I have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen 
with joy thy people, that are present here, offer willingly unto thee. 

1 Chronicles 29:18 O Jehovah, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of 
Israel, our fathers, keep this for ever in the imagination of the 
thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee; 

1 Chronicles 29:19 and give unto Solomon my son a perfect heart, to 
keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do 
all these things, and to build the palace, for which I have made 
provision. 

1 Chronicles 29:20 And David said to all the assembly, Now bless 
Jehovah your God. And all the assembly blessed Jehovah, the God of 
their fathers, and bowed down their heads, and worshipped Jehovah, 
and the king. 

1 Chronicles 29:21 And they sacrificed sacrifices unto Jehovah, and 
offered burnt-offerings unto Jehovah, on the morrow after that day, 
even a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, 
with their drink-offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel, 

1 Chronicles 29:22 and did eat and drink before Jehovah on that day 
with great gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king 
the second time, and anointed him unto Jehovah to be prince, and 
Zadok to be priest. 

1 Chronicles 29:23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of Jehovah as 
king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed 
him. 

1 Chronicles 29:24 And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all 
the sons likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon 
the king. 

1 Chronicles 29:25 And Jehovah magnified Solomon exceedingly in 
the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as 
had not been on any king before him in Israel. 


1 Chronicles 29:26 Now David the son of Jesse reigned over all 
Israel. 

1 Chronicles 29:27 And the time that he reigned over Israel was 
forty years; seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three 
[years] reigned he in Jerusalem. 

1 Chronicles 29:28 And he died in a good old age, full of days, 
riches, and honor: and Solomon his son reigned in his stead. 

1 Chronicles 29:29 Now the acts of David the king, first and last, 
behold, they are written in the history of Samuel the seer, and in the 
history of Nathan the prophet, and in the history of Gad the seer, 

1 Chronicles 29:30 with all his reign and his might, and the times 
that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the 
countries. 