Deuteronomy 











Deuteronomy 6 

Deuteronomy 6:1 Now this is the commandment, the statutes, and 
the ordinances, which Jehovah your God commanded to teach you, 
that ye might do them in the land whither ye go over to possess it; 

Deuteronomy 6:2 that thou mightest fear Jehovah thy God, to keep 
all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou, 
and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days of thy life; and that thy 
days may be prolonged. 

Deuteronomy 6:3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that 
it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as 
Jehovah, the God of thy fathers, hath promised unto thee, in a land 
flowing with milk and honey. 

Deuteronomy 6:4 Hear, O Israel: Jehovah our God is one Jehovah: 

Deuteronomy 6:5 and thou shalt love Jehovah thy God with all thy 
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. 

Deuteronomy 6:6 And these words, which I command thee this day, 
shall be upon thy heart; 

Deuteronomy 6:7 and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy 
children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thy house, and 
when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when 
thou risest up. 

Deuteronomy 6:8 And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy 
hand, and they shall be for frontlets between thine eyes. 

Deuteronomy 6:9 And thou shalt write them upon the door-posts of 
thy house, and upon thy gates. 

Deuteronomy 6:10 And it shall be, when Jehovah thy God shall 
bring thee into the land which he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, 
to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee, great and goodly cities, which 
thou buildest not, 

Deuteronomy 6:11 and houses full of all good things, which thou 
filledst not, and cisterns hewn out, which thou hewedst not, vineyards 
and olive-trees, which thou plantedst not, and thou shalt eat and be 
full; 


Deuteronomy 6:12 then beware lest thou forget Jehovah, who 
brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of 
bondage. 

Deuteronomy 6:13 Thou shalt fear Jehovah thy God; and him shalt 
thou serve, and shalt swear by his name. 

Deuteronomy 6:14 Ye shall not go after other gods, of the gods of 
the peoples that are round about you; 

Deuteronomy 6:15 for Jehovah thy God in the midst of thee is a 
jealous God; lest the anger of Jehovah thy God be kindled against 
thee, and he destroy thee from off the face of the earth. 

Deuteronomy 6:16 Ye shall not tempt Jehovah your God, as ye 
tempted him in Massah. 

Deuteronomy 6:17 Ye shall diligently keep the commandments of 
Jehovah your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he 
hath commanded thee. 

Deuteronomy 6:18 And thou shalt do that which is right and good in 
the sight of Jehovah; that it may be well with thee, and that thou 
mayest go in and possess the good land which Jehovah sware unto 
thy fathers, 

Deuteronomy 6:19 to thrust out all thine enemies from before thee, 
as Jehovah hath spoken. 

Deuteronomy 6:20 When thy son asketh thee in time to come, 
saying, What mean the testimonies, and the statutes, and the 
ordinances, which Jehovah our God hath commanded you? 

Deuteronomy 6:21 then thou shalt say unto thy son, We were 
Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt: and Jehovah brought us out of Egypt 
with a mighty hand; 

Deuteronomy 6:22 and Jehovah showed signs and wonders, great 
and sore, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his house, before 
our eyes; 

Deuteronomy 6:23 and he brought us out from thence, that he might 
bring us in, to give us the land which he sware unto our fathers. 


Deuteronomy 6:24 And Jehovah commanded us to do all these 
statutes, to fear Jehovah our God, for our good always, that he might 
preserve us alive, as at this day. 

Deuteronomy 6:25 And it shall be righteousness unto us, if we 
observe to do all this commandment before Jehovah our God, as he 
hath commanded us. 

Deuteronomy 7 

Deuteronomy 7:1 When Jehovah thy God shall bring thee into the 
land whither thou goest to possess it, and shall cast out many nations 
before thee, the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the 
Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, seven 
nations greater and mightier than thou; 

Deuteronomy 7:2 and when Jehovah thy God shall deliver them up 
before thee, and thou shalt smite them; then thou shalt utterly destroy 
them: thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy unto 
them; 

Deuteronomy 7:3 neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy 
daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou 
take unto thy son. 

Deuteronomy 7:4 For he will turn away thy son from following me, 
that they may serve other gods: so will the anger of Jehovah be 
kindled against you, and he will destroy thee quickly. 

Deuteronomy 7:5 But thus shall ye deal with them: ye shall break 
down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and hew down their 
Asherim, and burn their graven images with fire. 

Deuteronomy 7:6 For thou art a holy people unto Jehovah thy God: 
Jehovah thy God hath chosen thee to be a people for his own 
possession, above all peoples that are upon the face of the earth. 

Deuteronomy 7:7 Jehovah did not set his love upon you, nor choose 
you, because ye were more in number than any people; for ye were 
the fewest of all peoples: 

Deuteronomy 7:8 but because Jehovah loveth you, and because he 
would keep the oath which he sware unto your fathers, hath Jehovah 
brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the 
house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt. 


Deuteronomy 7:9 Know therefore that Jehovah thy God, he is God, 
the faithful God, who keepeth covenant and lovingkindness with 
them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand 
generations, 

Deuteronomy 7:10 and repayeth them that hate him to their face, to 
destroy them: he will not be slack to him that hateth him, he will 
repay him to his face. 

Deuteronomy 7:11 Thou shalt therefore keep the commandment, 
and the statutes, and the ordinances, which I command thee this day, 
to do them. 

Deuteronomy 7:12 And it shall come to pass, because ye hearken to 
these ordinances, and keep and do them, that Jehovah thy God will 
keep with thee the covenant and the lovingkindness which he sware 
unto thy fathers: 

Deuteronomy 7:13 and he will love thee, and bless thee, and 
multiply thee; he will also bless the fruit of thy body and the fruit of 
thy ground, thy grain and thy new wine and thine oil, the increase of 
thy cattle and the young of thy flock, in the land which he sware unto 
thy fathers to give thee. 

Deuteronomy 7:14 Thou shalt be blessed above all peoples: there 
shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your cattle. 

Deuteronomy 7:15 And Jehovah will take away from thee all 
sickness; and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which thou knowest, 
will he put upon thee, but will lay them upon all them that hate thee. 

Deuteronomy 7:16 And thou shalt consume all the peoples that 
Jehovah thy God shall deliver unto thee; thine eye shall not pity 
them: neither shalt thou serve their gods; for that will be a snare unto 
thee. 

Deuteronomy 7:17 If thou shalt say in thy heart, These nations are 
more than I; how can I dispossess them? 

Deuteronomy 7:18 thou shalt not be afraid of them: thou shalt well 
remember what Jehovah thy God did unto Pharaoh, and unto all 
Egypt; 


Deuteronomy 7:19 the great trials which thine eyes saw, and the 
signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the outstretched 
arm, whereby Jehovah thy God brought thee out: so shall Jehovah thy 
God do unto all the peoples of whom thou art afraid. 

Deuteronomy 7:20 Moreover Jehovah thy God will send the hornet 
among them, until they that are left, and hide themselves, perish from 
before thee. 

Deuteronomy 7:21 Thou shalt not be affrighted at them; for Jehovah 
thy God is in the midst of thee, a great God and a terrible. 

Deuteronomy 7:22 And Jehovah thy God will cast out those nations 
before thee by little and little: thou mayest not consume them at once, 
lest the beasts of the field increase upon thee. 

Deuteronomy 7:23 But Jehovah thy God will deliver them up before 
thee, and will discomfit them with a great discomfiture, until they be 
destroyed. 

Deuteronomy 7:24 And he will deliver their kings into thy hand, and 
thou shalt make their name to perish from under heaven: there shall 
no man be able to stand before thee, until thou have destroyed them. 

Deuteronomy 7:25 The graven images of their gods shall ye burn 
with fire: thou shalt not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, 
nor take it unto thee, lest thou be snared therein; for it is an 
abomination to Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 7:26 And thou shalt not bring an abomination into thy 
house, and become a devoted thing like unto it: thou shalt utterly 
detest it, and thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is a devoted thing. 

Deuteronomy 8 

Deuteronomy 8:1 All the commandment which I command thee this 
day shall ye observe to do, that ye may live, and multiply, and go in 
and possess the land which Jehovah sware unto your fathers. 

Deuteronomy 8:2 And thou shalt remember all the way which 
Jehovah thy God hath led thee these forty years in the wilderness, 
that he might humble thee, to prove thee, to know what was in thy 
heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments, or not. 


Deuteronomy 8:3 And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, 
and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy 
fathers know; that he might make thee know that man doth not live 
by bread only, but by everything that proceedeth out of the mouth of 
Jehovah doth man live. 

Deuteronomy 8:4 Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did 
thy foot swell, these forty years. 

Deuteronomy 8:5 And thou shalt consider in thy heart, that, as a man 
chasteneth his son, so Jehovah thy God chasteneth thee. 

Deuteronomy 8:6 And thou shalt keep the commandments of 
Jehovah thy God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him. 

Deuteronomy 8:7 For Jehovah thy God bringeth thee into a good 
land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing 
forth in valleys and hills; 

Deuteronomy 8:8 a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig-trees 
and pomegranates; a land of olive-trees and honey; 

Deuteronomy 8:9 a land wherein thou shalt eat bread without 
scarceness, thou shalt not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are 
iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig copper. 

Deuteronomy 8:10 And thou shalt eat and be full, and thou shalt 
bless Jehovah thy God for the good land which he hath given thee. 

Deuteronomy 8:11 Beware lest thou forget Jehovah thy God, in not 
keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, 
which I command thee this day: 

Deuteronomy 8:12 lest, when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast 
built goodly houses, and dwelt therein; 

Deuteronomy 8:13 and when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and 
thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is 
multiplied; 

Deuteronomy 8:14 then thy heart be lifted up, and thou forget 
Jehovah thy God, who brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, 
out of the house of bondage; 


Deuteronomy 8:15 who led thee through the great and terrible 
wilderness, [wherein were] fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty 
ground where was no water; who brought thee forth water out of the 
rock of flint; 

Deuteronomy 8:16 who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, 
which thy fathers knew not; that he might humble thee, and that he 
might prove thee, to do thee good at thy latter end: 

Deuteronomy 8:17 and [lest] thou say in thy heart, My power and 
the might of my hand hath gotten me this wealth. 

Deuteronomy 8:18 But thou shalt remember Jehovah thy God, for it 
is he that giveth thee power to get wealth; that he may establish his 
covenant which he sware unto thy fathers, as at this day. 

Deuteronomy 8:19 And it shall be, if thou shalt forget Jehovah thy 
God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I 
testify against you this day that ye shall surely perish. 

Deuteronomy 8:20 As the nations that Jehovah maketh to perish 
before you, so shall ye perish; because ye would not hearken unto the 
voice of Jehovah your God. 

Deuteronomy 9 

Deuteronomy 9:1 Hear, O Israel: thou art to pass over the Jordan 
this day, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than 
thyself, cities great and fortified up to heaven, 

Deuteronomy 9:2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, 
whom thou knowest, and of whom thou hast heard say, Who can 
stand before the sons of Anak? 

Deuteronomy 9:3 Know therefore this day, that Jehovah thy God is 
he who goeth over before thee as a devouring fire; he will destroy 
them, and he will bring them down before thee: so shalt thou drive 
them out, and make them to perish quickly, as Jehovah hath spoken 
unto thee. 

Deuteronomy 9:4 Speak not thou in thy heart, after that Jehovah thy 
God hath thrust them out from before thee, saying, For my 
righteousness Jehovah hath brought me in to possess this land; 
whereas for the wickedness of these nations Jehovah doth drive them 
out from before thee. 


Deuteronomy 9:5 Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of 
thy heart, dost thou go in to possess their land; but for the wickedness 
of these nations Jehovah thy God doth drive them out from before 
thee, and that he may establish the word which Jehovah sware unto 
thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. 

Deuteronomy 9:6 Know therefore, that Jehovah thy God giveth thee 
not this good land to possess it for thy righteousness; for thou art a 
stiffnecked people. 

Deuteronomy 9:7 Remember, forget thou not, how thou provokedst 
Jehovah thy God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that thou 
wentest forth out of the land of Egypt, until ye came unto this place, 
ye have been rebellious against Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 9:8 Also in Horeb ye provoked Jehovah to wrath, and 
Jehovah was angry with you to destroy you. 

Deuteronomy 9:9 When I was gone up into the mount to receive the 
tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which Jehovah made 
with you, then I abode in the mount forty days and forty nights; I did 
neither eat bread nor drink water. 

Deuteronomy 9:10 And Jehovah delivered unto me the two tables of 
stone written with the finger of God; and on them [was written] 
according to all the words, which Jehovah speak with you in the 
mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly. 

Deuteronomy 9:11 And it came to pass at the end of forty days and 
forty nights, that Jehovah gave me the two tables of stone, even the 
tables of the covenant. 

Deuteronomy 9:12 And Jehovah said unto me, Arise, get thee down 
quickly from hence; for thy people that thou hast brought forth out of 
Egypt have corrupted themselves; they are quickly turned aside out of 
the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten 
image. 

Deuteronomy 9:13 Furthermore Jehovah spake unto me, saying, I 
have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 

Deuteronomy 9:14 let me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot 
out their name from under heaven; and I will make of thee a nation 
mightier and greater than they. 


Deuteronomy 9:15 So I turned and came down from the mount, and 
the mount was burning with fire: and the two tables of the covenant 
were in my two hands. 

Deuteronomy 9:16 And I looked, and, behold, ye had sinned against 
Jehovah your God; ye had made you a molten calf: ye had turned 
aside quickly out of the way which Jehovah had commanded you. 

Deuteronomy 9:17 And I took hold of the two tables, and cast them 
out of my two hands, and brake them before your eyes. 

Deuteronomy 9:18 And I fell down before Jehovah, as at the first, 
forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water; 
because of all your sin which ye sinned, in doing that which was evil 
in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger. 

Deuteronomy 9:19 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure, 
wherewith Jehovah was wroth against you to destroy you. But 
Jehovah hearkened unto me that time also. 

Deuteronomy 9:20 And Jehovah was very angry with Aaron to 
destroy him: and I prayed for Aaron also at the same time. 

Deuteronomy 9:21 And I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, 
and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it very small, until it 
was as fine as dust: and I cast the dust thereof into the brook that 
descended out of the mount. 

Deuteronomy 9:22 And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibrothhattaavah, 
ye provoked Jehovah to wrath. 

Deuteronomy 9:23 And when Jehovah sent you from Kadeshbarnea, 
saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you; 
then ye rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah your God, and 
ye believed him not, nor hearkened to his voice. 

Deuteronomy 9:24 Ye have been rebellious against Jehovah from 
the day that I knew you. 

Deuteronomy 9:25 So I fell down before Jehovah the forty days and 
forty nights that I fell down, because Jehovah had said he would 
destroy you. 


Deuteronomy 9:26 And I prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord 
Jehovah, destroy not thy people and thine inheritance, that thou hast 
redeemed through thy greatness, that thou hast brought forth out of 
Egypt with a mighty hand. 

Deuteronomy 9:27 Remember thy servants, Abraham, Isaac, and 
Jacob; look not unto the stubbornness of this people, nor to their 
wickedness, nor to their sin, 

Deuteronomy 9:28 lest the land whence thou broughtest us out say, 
Because Jehovah was not able to bring them into the land which he 
promised unto them, and because he hated them, he hath brought 
them out to slay them in the wilderness. 

Deuteronomy 9:29 Yet they are thy people and thine inheritance, 
which thou broughtest out by thy great power and by thine 
outstretched arm. 

Deuteronomy 10 

Deuteronomy 10:1 At that time Jehovah said unto me, Hew thee two 
tables of stone like unto the first, and come up unto me into the 
mount, and make thee an ark of wood. 

Deuteronomy 10:2 And I will write on the tables the words that were 
on the first tables which thou brakest, and thou shalt put them in the 
ark. 

Deuteronomy 10:3 So I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two 
tables of stone like unto the first, and went up into the mount, having 
the two tables in my hand. 

Deuteronomy 10:4 And he wrote on the tables, according to the first 
writing, the ten commandments, which Jehovah spake unto you in the 
mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and 
Jehovah gave them unto me. 

Deuteronomy 10:5 And I turned and came down from the mount, 
and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as 
Jehovah commanded me. 

Deuteronomy 10:6 (And the children of Israel journeyed from 
Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was 
buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his 
stead. 


Deuteronomy 10:7 From thence they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and 
from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water. 

Deuteronomy 10:8 At that time Jehovah set apart the tribe of Levi, 
to bear the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to 
minister unto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day. 

Deuteronomy 10:9 Wherefore Levi hath no portion nor inheritance 
with his brethren; Jehovah is his inheritance, according as Jehovah 
thy God spake unto him.) 

Deuteronomy 10:10 And I stayed in the mount, as at the first time, 
forty days and forty nights: and Jehovah hearkened unto me that time 
also; Jehovah would not destroy thee. 

Deuteronomy 10:11 And Jehovah said unto me, Arise, take thy 
journey before the people; and they shall go in and possess the land, 
which I sware unto their fathers to give unto them. 

Deuteronomy 10:12 And now, Israel, what doth Jehovah thy God 
require of thee, but to fear Jehovah thy God, to walk in all his ways, 
and to love him, and to serve Jehovah thy God with all thy heart and 
with all thy soul, 

Deuteronomy 10:13 to keep the commandments of Jehovah, and his 
statutes, which I command thee this day for thy good? 

Deuteronomy 10:14 Behold, unto Jehovah thy God belongeth 
heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein. 

Deuteronomy 10:15 Only Jehovah had a delight in thy fathers to 
love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all 
peoples, as at this day. 

Deuteronomy 10:16 Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, 
and be no more stiffnecked. 

Deuteronomy 10:17 For Jehovah your God, he is God of gods, and 
Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty, and the terrible, who 
regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward. 

Deuteronomy 10:18 He doth execute justice for the fatherless and 
widow, and loveth the sojourner, in giving him food and raiment. 


Deuteronomy 10:19 Love ye therefore the sojourner; for ye were 
sojourners in the land of Egypt. 

Deuteronomy 10:20 Thou shalt fear Jehovah thy God; him shalt thou 
serve; and to him shalt thou cleave, and by his name shalt thou swear. 

Deuteronomy 10:21 He is thy praise, and he is thy God, that hath 
done for thee these great and terrible things, which thine eyes have 
seen. 

Deuteronomy 10:22 Thy fathers went down into Egypt with 
threescore and ten persons; and now Jehovah thy God hath made thee 
as the stars of heaven for multitude. 

Deuteronomy 11 

Deuteronomy 11:1 Therefore thou shalt love Jehovah thy God, and 
keep his charge, and his statutes, and his ordinances, and his 
commandments, alway. 

Deuteronomy 11:2 And know ye this day: for [I speak] not with 
your children that have not known, and that have not seen the 
chastisement of Jehovah your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, 
and his outstretched arm, 

Deuteronomy 11:3 and his signs, and his works, which he did in the 
midst of Egypt unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and unto all his land; 

Deuteronomy 11:4 and what he did unto the army of Egypt, unto 
their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Red 
Sea to overflow them as they pursued after you, and how Jehovah 
hath destroyed them unto this day; 

Deuteronomy 11:5 and what he did unto you in the wilderness, until 
ye came unto this place; 

Deuteronomy 11:6 and what he did unto Dathan and Abiram, the 
sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben; how the earth opened its mouth, 
and swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and 
every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all Israel: 

Deuteronomy 11:7 but your eyes have seen all the great work of 
Jehovah which he did. 


Deuteronomy 11:8 Therefore shall ye keep all the commandment 
which I command thee this day, that ye may be strong, and go in and 
possess the land, whither ye go over to possess it; 

Deuteronomy 11:9 and that ye may prolong your days in the land, 
which Jehovah sware unto your fathers to give unto them and to their 
seed, a land flowing with milk and honey. 

Deuteronomy 11:10 For the land, whither thou goest in to possess it, 
is not as the land of Egypt, from whence ye came out, where thou 
sowedst thy seed, and wateredst it with thy foot, as a garden of herbs; 

Deuteronomy 11:11 but the land, whither ye go over to possess it, is 
a land of hills and valleys, [and] drinketh water of the rain of heaven, 

Deuteronomy 11:12 a land which Jehovah thy God careth for: the 
eyes of Jehovah thy God are always upon it, from the beginning of 
the year even unto the end of the year. 

Deuteronomy 11:13 And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken 
diligently unto my commandments which I command you this day, to 
love Jehovah your God, and to serve him with all your heart and with 
all your soul, 

Deuteronomy 11:14 that I will give the rain of your land in its 
season, the former rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest gather in 
thy grain, and thy new wine, and thine oil. 

Deuteronomy 11:15 And I will give grass in thy fields for thy cattle, 
and thou shalt eat and be full. 

Deuteronomy 11:16 Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be 
deceived, and ye turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them; 

Deuteronomy 11:17 and the anger of Jehovah be kindled against 
you, and he shut up the heavens, so that there shall be no rain, and the 
land shall not yield its fruit; and ye perish quickly from off the good 
land which Jehovah giveth you. 

Deuteronomy 11:18 Therefore shall ye lay up these my words in 
your heart and in your soul; and ye shall bind them for a sign upon 
your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes. 

Deuteronomy 11:19 And ye shall teach them your children, talking 
of them, when thou sittest in thy house, and when thou walkest by the 
way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. 


Deuteronomy 11:20 And thou shalt write them upon the door-posts 
of thy house, and upon thy gates; 

Deuteronomy 11:21 that your days may be multiplied, and the days 
of your children, in the land which Jehovah sware unto your fathers 
to give them, as the days of the heavens above the earth. 

Deuteronomy 11:22 For if ye shall diligently keep all this 
commandment which I command you, to do it, to love Jehovah your 
God, to walk in all his ways, and to cleave unto him; 

Deuteronomy 11:23 then will Jehovah drive out all these nations 
from before you, and ye shall dispossess nations greater and mightier 
than yourselves. 

Deuteronomy 11:24 Every place whereon the sole of your foot shall 
tread shall be yours: from the wilderness, and Lebanon, from the 
river, the river Euphrates, even unto the hinder sea shall be your 
border. 

Deuteronomy 11:25 There shall no man be able to stand before you: 
Jehovah your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon 
all the land that ye shall tread upon, as he hath spoken unto you. 

Deuteronomy 11:26 Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and 
a curse: 

Deuteronomy 11:27 the blessing, if ye shall hearken unto the 
commandments of Jehovah your God, which I command you this 
day; 

Deuteronomy 11:28 and the curse, if ye shall not hearken unto the 
commandments of Jehovah your God, but turn aside out of the way 
which I command you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have 
not known. 

Deuteronomy 11:29 And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah thy 
God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it, 
that thou shalt set the blessing upon mount Gerizim, and the curse 
upon mount Ebal. 

Deuteronomy 11:30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, behind the way 
of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites that dwell 
in the Arabah, over against Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh? 


Deuteronomy 11:31 For ye are to pass over the Jordan to go in to 
possess the land which Jehovah your God giveth you, and ye shall 
possess it, and dwell therein. 

Deuteronomy 11:32 And ye shall observe to do all the statutes and 
the ordinances which I set before you this day. 

Deuteronomy 12 

Deuteronomy 12:1 These are the statutes and the ordinances which 
ye shall observe to do in the land which Jehovah, the God of thy 
fathers, hath given thee to possess it, all the days that ye live upon the 
earth. 

Deuteronomy 12:2 Ye shall surely destroy all the places wherein the 
nations that ye shall dispossess served their gods, upon the high 
mountains, and upon the hills, and under every green tree: 

Deuteronomy 12:3 and ye shall break down their altars, and dash in 
pieces their pillars, and burn their Asherim with fire; and ye shall 
hew down the graven images of their gods; and ye shall destroy their 
name out of that place. 

Deuteronomy 12:4 Ye shall not do so unto Jehovah your God. 

Deuteronomy 12:5 But unto the place which Jehovah your God shall 
choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there, even unto his 
habitation shall ye seek, and thither thou shalt come; 

Deuteronomy 12:6 and thither ye shall bring your burnt-offerings, 
and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the heave-offering of your 
hand, and your vows, and your freewill-offerings, and the firstlings of 
your herd and of your flock: 

Deuteronomy 12:7 and there ye shall eat before Jehovah your God, 
and ye shall rejoice in all that ye put your hand unto, ye and your 
households, wherein Jehovah thy God hath blessed thee. 

Deuteronomy 12:8 Ye shall not do after all the things that we do 
here this day, every man whatsoever is right in his own eyes; 

Deuteronomy 12:9 for ye are not as yet come to the rest and to the 
inheritance, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee. 


Deuteronomy 12:10 But when ye go over the Jordan, and dwell in 
the land which Jehovah your God causeth you to inherit, and he 
giveth you rest from all your enemies round about, so that ye dwell in 
safety; 

Deuteronomy 12:11 then it shall come to pass that to the place 
which Jehovah your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell 
there, thither shall ye bring all that I command you: your burntofferings, 
and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the heave-offering of 
your hand, and all your choice vows which ye vow unto Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 12:12 And ye shall rejoice before Jehovah your God, 
ye, and your sons, and your daughters, and your men-servants, and 
your maid-servants, and the Levite that is within your gates, 
forasmuch as he hath no portion nor inheritance with you. 

Deuteronomy 12:13 Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy 
burnt-offerings in every place that thou seest; 

Deuteronomy 12:14 but in the place which Jehovah shall choose in 
one of thy tribes, there thou shalt offer thy burnt-offerings, and there 
thou shalt do all that I command thee. 

Deuteronomy 12:15 Notwithstanding, thou mayest kill and eat flesh 
within all thy gates, after all the desire of thy soul, according to the 
blessing of Jehovah thy God which he hath given thee: the unclean 
and the clean may eat thereof, as of the gazelle, and as of the hart. 

Deuteronomy 12:16 Only ye shall not eat the blood; thou shalt pour 
it out upon the earth as water. 

Deuteronomy 12:17 Thou mayest not eat within thy gates the tithe 
of thy grain, or of thy new wine, or of thine oil, or the firstlings of thy 
herd or of thy flock, nor any of thy vows which thou vowest, nor thy 
freewill-offerings, nor the heave-offering of thy hand; 

Deuteronomy 12:18 but thou shalt eat them before Jehovah thy God 
in the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose, thou, and thy son, 
and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, and the 
Levite that is within thy gates: and thou shalt rejoice before Jehovah 
thy God in all that thou puttest thy hand unto. 

Deuteronomy 12:19 Take heed to thyself that thou forsake not the 
Levite as long as thou livest in thy land. 


Deuteronomy 12:20 When Jehovah thy God shall enlarge thy 
border, as he hath promised thee, and thou shalt say, I will eat flesh, 
because thy soul desireth to eat flesh; thou mayest eat flesh, after all 
the desire of thy soul. 

Deuteronomy 12:21 If the place which Jehovah thy God shall 
choose, to put his name there, be too far from thee, then thou shalt 
kill of thy herd and of thy flock, which Jehovah hath given thee, as I 
have commanded thee; and thou mayest eat within thy gates, after all 
the desire of thy soul. 

Deuteronomy 12:22 Even as the gazelle and as the hart is eaten, so 
thou shalt eat thereof: the unclean and the clean may eat thereof alike. 

Deuteronomy 12:23 Only be sure that thou eat not the blood: for the 
blood is the life; and thou shalt not eat the life with the flesh. 

Deuteronomy 12:24 Thou shalt not eat it; thou shalt pour it out upon 
the earth as water. 

Deuteronomy 12:25 Thou shalt not eat it; that it may go well with 
thee, and with thy children after thee, when thou shalt do that which 
is right in the eyes of Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 12:26 Only thy holy things which thou hast, and thy 
vows, thou shalt take, and go unto the place which Jehovah shall 
choose: 

Deuteronomy 12:27 and thou shalt offer thy burnt-offerings, the 
flesh and the blood, upon the altar of Jehovah thy God; and the blood 
of thy sacrifices shall be poured out upon the altar of Jehovah thy 
God; and thou shalt eat the flesh. 

Deuteronomy 12:28 Observe and hear all these words which I 
command thee, that it may go well with thee, and with thy children 
after thee for ever, when thou doest that which is good and right in 
the eyes of Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 12:29 When Jehovah thy God shall cut off the nations 
from before thee, whither thou goest in to dispossess them, and thou 
dispossessest them, and dwellest in their land; 

Deuteronomy 12:30 take heed to thyself that thou be not ensnared to 
follow them, after that they are destroyed from before thee; and that 
thou inquire not after their gods, saying, How do these nations serve 
their gods? even so will I do likewise. 


Deuteronomy 12:31 Thou shalt not do so unto Jehovah thy God: for 
every abomination to Jehovah, which he hateth, have they done unto 
their gods; for even their sons and their daughters do they burn in the 
fire to their gods. 

Deuteronomy 12:32 What thing soever I command you, that shall ye 
observe to do: thou shalt not add thereto, nor diminish from it. 

Deuteronomy 13 

Deuteronomy 13:1 If there arise in the midst of thee a prophet, or a 
dreamer of dreams, and he give thee a sign or a wonder, 

Deuteronomy 13:2 and the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof 
he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other gods, which thou 
hast not known, and let us serve them; 

Deuteronomy 13:3 thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that 
prophet, or unto that dreamer of dreams: for Jehovah your God 
proveth you, to know whether ye love Jehovah your God with all 
your heart and with all your soul. 

Deuteronomy 13:4 Ye shall walk after Jehovah your God, and fear 
him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall 
serve him, and cleave unto him. 

Deuteronomy 13:5 And that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, 
shall be put to death, because he hath spoken rebellion against 
Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, and 
redeemed thee out of the house of bondage, to draw thee aside out of 
the way which Jehovah thy God commanded thee to walk in. So shalt 
thou put away the evil from the midst of thee. 

Deuteronomy 13:6 If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy son, 
or thy daughter, or the wife of thy bosom, or thy friend, that is as 
thine own soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other 
gods, which thou hast not known, thou, nor thy fathers; 

Deuteronomy 13:7 of the gods of the peoples that are round about 
you, nigh unto thee, or far off from thee, from the one end of the 
earth even unto the other end of the earth; 


Deuteronomy 13:8 thou shalt not consent unto him, nor hearken 
unto him; neither shall thine eye pity him, neither shalt thou spare, 
neither shalt thou conceal him: 

Deuteronomy 13:9 but thou shalt surely kill him; thy hand shall be 
first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the 
people. 

Deuteronomy 13:10 And thou shalt stone him to death with stones, 
because he hath sought to draw thee away from Jehovah thy God, 
who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of 
bondage. 

Deuteronomy 13:11 And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do 
not more any such wickedness as this is in the midst of thee. 

Deuteronomy 13:12 If thou shalt hear tell concerning one of thy 
cities, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee to dwell there, saying, 

Deuteronomy 13:13 Certain base fellows are gone out from the 
midst of thee, and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, 
saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which ye have not known; 

Deuteronomy 13:14 then shalt thou inquire, and make search, and 
ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that 
such abomination is wrought in the midst of thee, 

Deuteronomy 13:15 thou shalt surely smite the inhabitants of that 
city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is 
therein and the cattle thereof, with the edge of the sword. 

Deuteronomy 13:16 And thou shalt gather all the spoil of it into the 
midst of the street thereof, and shalt burn with fire the city, and all the 
spoil thereof every whit, unto Jehovah thy God: and it shall be a heap 
for ever; it shall not be built again. 

Deuteronomy 13:17 And there shall cleave nought of the devoted 
thing to thy hand; that Jehovah may turn from the fierceness of his 
anger, and show thee mercy, and have compassion upon thee, and 
multiply thee, as he hath sworn unto thy fathers; 

Deuteronomy 13:18 when thou shalt hearken to the voice of Jehovah 
thy God, to keep all his commandments which I command thee this 
day, to do that which is right in the eyes of Jehovah thy God. 


Deuteronomy 14 

Deuteronomy 14:1 Ye are the children of Jehovah your God: ye 
shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes 
for the dead. 

Deuteronomy 14:2 For thou art a holy people unto Jehovah thy God, 
and Jehovah hath chosen thee to be a people for his own possession, 
above all peoples that are upon the face of the earth. 

Deuteronomy 14:3 Thou shalt not eat any abominable thing. 

Deuteronomy 14:4 These are the beasts which ye may eat: the ox, 
the sheep, and the goat, 

Deuteronomy 14:5 the hart, and the gazelle, and the roebuck, and the 
wild goat, and the pygarg, and the antelope, and the chamois. 

Deuteronomy 14:6 And every beast that parteth the hoof, and hath 
the hoof cloven in two, [and] cheweth the cud, among the beasts, that 
may ye eat. 

Deuteronomy 14:7 Nevertheless these ye shall not eat of them that 
chew the cud, or of them that have the hoof cloven: the camel, and 
the hare, and the coney; because they chew the cud but part not the 
hoof, they are unclean unto you. 

Deuteronomy 14:8 And the swine, because he parteth the hoof but 
cheweth not the cud, he is unclean unto you: of their flesh ye shall 
not eat, and their carcasses ye shall not touch. 

Deuteronomy 14:9 These ye may eat of all that are in the waters: 
whatsoever hath fins and scales may ye eat; 

Deuteronomy 14:10 and whatsoever hath not fins and scales ye shall 
not eat; it is unclean unto you. 

Deuteronomy 14:11 Of all clean birds ye may eat. 

Deuteronomy 14:12 But these are they of which ye shall not eat: the 
eagle, and the gier-eagle, and the ospray, 

Deuteronomy 14:13 and the glede, and the falcon, and the kite after 
its kind, 

Deuteronomy 14:14 and every raven after its kind, 


Deuteronomy 14:15 and the ostrich, and the night-hawk, and the 
sea-mew, and the hawk after its kind, 

Deuteronomy 14:16 the little owl, and the great owl, and the horned 
owl, 

Deuteronomy 14:17 and the pelican, and the vulture, and the 
cormorant, 

Deuteronomy 14:18 and the stork, and the heron after its kind, and 
the hoopoe, and the bat. 

Deuteronomy 14:19 And all winged creeping things are unclean 
unto you: they shall not be eaten. 

Deuteronomy 14:20 Of all clean birds ye may eat. 

Deuteronomy 14:21 Ye shall not eat of anything that dieth of itself: 
thou mayest give it unto the sojourner that is within thy gates, that he 
may eat it; or thou mayest sell it unto a foreigner: for thou art a holy 
people unto Jehovah thy God. Thou shalt not boil a kid in its mother's 
milk. 

Deuteronomy 14:22 Thou shalt surely tithe all the increase of thy 
seed, that which cometh forth from the field year by year. 

Deuteronomy 14:23 And thou shalt eat before Jehovah thy God, in 
the place which he shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there, the 
tithe of thy grain, of thy new wine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings 
of thy herd and of thy flock; that thou mayest learn to fear Jehovah 
thy God always. 

Deuteronomy 14:24 And if the way be too long for thee, so that thou 
art not able to carry it, because the place is too far from thee, which 
Jehovah thy God shall choose, to set his name there, when Jehovah 
thy God shall bless thee; 

Deuteronomy 14:25 then shalt thou turn it into money, and bind up 
the money in thy hand, and shalt go unto the place which Jehovah thy 
God shall choose: 


Deuteronomy 14:26 and thou shalt bestow the money for 
whatsoever thy soul desireth, for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or 
for strong drink, or for whatsoever thy soul asketh of thee; and thou 
shalt eat there before Jehovah thy God, and thou shalt rejoice, thou 
and thy household. 

Deuteronomy 14:27 And the Levite that is within thy gates, thou 
shalt not forsake him; for he hath no portion nor inheritance with 
thee. 

Deuteronomy 14:28 At the end of every three years thou shalt bring 
forth all the tithe of thine increase in the same year, and shalt lay it up 
within thy gates: 

Deuteronomy 14:29 and the Levite, because he hath no portion nor 
inheritance with thee, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the 
widow, that are within thy gates, shall come, and shall eat and be 
satisfied; that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy 
hand which thou doest. 

Deuteronomy 15 

Deuteronomy 15:1 At the end of every seven years thou shalt make 
a release. 

Deuteronomy 15:2 And this is the manner of the release: every 
creditor shall release that which he hath lent unto his neighbor; he 
shall not exact it of his neighbor and his brother; because Jehovah's 
release hath been proclaimed. 

Deuteronomy 15:3 Of a foreigner thou mayest exact it: but 
whatsoever of thine is with thy brother thy hand shall release. 

Deuteronomy 15:4 Howbeit there shall be no poor with thee; (for 
Jehovah will surely bless thee in the land which Jehovah thy God 
giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it;) 

Deuteronomy 15:5 if only thou diligently hearken unto the voice of 
Jehovah thy God, to observe to do all this commandment which I 
command thee this day. 

Deuteronomy 15:6 For Jehovah thy God will bless thee, as he 
promised thee: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, but thou shalt 
not borrow; and thou shalt rule over many nations, but they shall not 
rule over thee. 


Deuteronomy 15:7 If there be with thee a poor man, one of thy 
brethren, within any of thy gates in thy land which Jehovah thy God 
giveth thee, thou shalt not harden thy heart, nor shut thy hand from 
thy poor brother; 

Deuteronomy 15:8 but thou shalt surely open thy hand unto him, and 
shalt surely lend him sufficient for his need [in that] which he 
wanteth. 

Deuteronomy 15:9 Beware that there be not a base thought in thy 
heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and 
thine eye be evil against thy poor brother, and thou give him nought; 
and he cry unto Jehovah against thee, and it be sin unto thee. 

Deuteronomy 15:10 Thou shalt surely give him, and thy heart shall 
not be grieved when thou givest unto him; because that for this thing 
Jehovah thy God will bless thee in all thy work, and in all that thou 
puttest thy hand unto. 

Deuteronomy 15:11 For the poor will never cease out of the land: 
therefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt surely open thy hand 
unto thy brother, to thy needy, and to thy poor, in thy land. 

Deuteronomy 15:12 If thy brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew 
woman, be sold unto thee, and serve thee six years; then in the 
seventh year thou shalt let him go free from thee. 

Deuteronomy 15:13 And when thou lettest him go free from thee, 
thou shalt not let him go empty: 

Deuteronomy 15:14 thou shalt furnish him liberally out of thy flock, 
and out of thy threshing-floor, and out of thy winepress; as Jehovah 
thy God hath blessed thee thou shalt give unto him. 

Deuteronomy 15:15 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a 
bondman in the land of Egypt, and Jehovah thy God redeemed thee: 
therefore I command thee this thing to-day. 

Deuteronomy 15:16 And it shall be, if he say unto thee, I will not go 
out from thee; because he loveth thee and thy house, because he is 
well with thee; 

Deuteronomy 15:17 then thou shalt take an awl, and thrust it through 
his ear unto the door, and he shall be thy servant for ever. And also 
unto thy maid-servant thou shalt do likewise. 


Deuteronomy 15:18 It shall not seem hard unto thee, when thou 
lettest him go free from thee; for to the double of the hire of a 
hireling hath he served thee six years: and Jehovah thy God will bless 
thee in all that thou doest. 

Deuteronomy 15:19 All the firstling males that are born of thy herd 
and of thy flock thou shalt sanctify unto Jehovah thy God: thou shalt 
do no work with the firstling of thy herd, nor shear the firstling of thy 
flock. 

Deuteronomy 15:20 Thou shalt eat it before Jehovah thy God year 
by year in the place which Jehovah shall choose, thou and thy 
household. 

Deuteronomy 15:21 And if it have any blemish, [as if it be] lame or 
blind, any ill blemish whatsoever, thou shalt not sacrifice it unto 
Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 15:22 Thou shalt eat it within thy gates: the unclean 
and the clean [shall eat it] alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart. 

Deuteronomy 15:23 Only thou shalt not eat the blood thereof; thou 
shalt pour it out upon the ground as water. 

Deuteronomy 16 

Deuteronomy 16:1 Observe the month of Abib, and keep the 
passover unto Jehovah thy God; for in the month of Abib Jehovah thy 
God brought thee forth out of Egypt by night. 

Deuteronomy 16:2 And thou shalt sacrifice the passover unto 
Jehovah thy God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which 
Jehovah shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there. 

Deuteronomy 16:3 Thou shalt eat no leavened bread with it; seven 
days shalt thou eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of 
affliction; for thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that 
thou mayest remember the day when thou camest forth out of the 
land of Egypt all the days of thy life. 

Deuteronomy 16:4 And there shall be no leaven seen with thee in all 
thy borders seven days; neither shall any of the flesh, which thou 
sacrificest the first day at even, remain all night until the morning. 


Deuteronomy 16:5 Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover within 
any of thy gates, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee; 

Deuteronomy 16:6 but at the place which Jehovah thy God shall 
choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there thou shalt sacrifice the 
passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at the season that thou 
camest forth out of Egypt. 

Deuteronomy 16:7 And thou shalt roast and eat it in the place which 
Jehovah thy God shall choose: and thou shalt turn in the morning, 
and go unto thy tents. 

Deuteronomy 16:8 Six days thou shalt eat unleavened bread; and on 
the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to Jehovah thy God; thou 
shalt do no work [therein]. 

Deuteronomy 16:9 Seven weeks shalt thou number unto thee: from 
the time thou beginnest to put the sickle to the standing grain shalt 
thou begin to number seven weeks. 

Deuteronomy 16:10 And thou shalt keep the feast of weeks unto 
Jehovah thy God with a tribute of a freewill-offering of thy hand, 
which thou shalt give, according as Jehovah thy God blesseth thee: 

Deuteronomy 16:11 and thou shalt rejoice before Jehovah thy God, 
thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy 
maid-servant, and the Levite that is within thy gates, and the 
sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are in the midst of 
thee, in the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose, to cause his 
name to dwell there. 

Deuteronomy 16:12 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a 
bondman in Egypt: and thou shalt observe and do these statutes. 

Deuteronomy 16:13 Thou shalt keep the feast of tabernacles seven 
days, after that thou hast gathered in from thy threshing-floor and 
from thy winepress: 

Deuteronomy 16:14 and thou shalt rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy 
son, and thy daughter, and thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, 
and the Levite, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, 
that are within thy gates. 


Deuteronomy 16:15 Seven days shalt thou keep a feast unto Jehovah 
thy God in the place which Jehovah shall choose; because Jehovah 
thy God will bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the work of thy 
hands, and thou shalt be altogether joyful. 

Deuteronomy 16:16 Three times in a year shall all thy males appear 
before Jehovah thy God in the place which he shall choose: in the 
feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast 
of tabernacles; and they shall not appear before Jehovah empty: 

Deuteronomy 16:17 every man shall give as he is able, according to 
the blessing of Jehovah thy God which he hath given thee. 

Deuteronomy 16:18 Judges and officers shalt thou make thee in all 
thy gates, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee, according to thy tribes; 
and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment. 

Deuteronomy 16:19 Thou shalt not wrest justice: thou shalt not 
respect persons; neither shalt thou take a bribe; for a bribe doth blind 
the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous. 

Deuteronomy 16:20 That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, 
that thou mayest live, and inherit the land which Jehovah thy God 
giveth thee. 

Deuteronomy 16:21 Thou shalt not plant thee an Asherah of any 
kind of tree beside the altar of Jehovah thy God, which thou shalt 
make thee. 

Deuteronomy 16:22 Neither shalt thou set thee up a pillar; which 
Jehovah thy God hateth. 

Deuteronomy 17 

Deuteronomy 17:1 Thou shalt not sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God an 
ox, or a sheep, wherein is a blemish, [or] anything evil; for that is an 
abomination unto Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 17:2 If there be found in the midst of thee, within any 
of thy gates which Jehovah thy God giveth thee, man or woman, that 
doeth that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah thy God, in 
transgressing his covenant, 


Deuteronomy 17:3 and hath gone and served other gods, and 
worshipped them, or the sun, or the moon, or any of the host of 
heaven, which I have not commanded; 

Deuteronomy 17:4 and it be told thee, and thou hast heard of it, then 
shalt thou inquire diligently; and, behold, if it be true, and the thing 
certain, that such abomination is wrought in Israel, 

Deuteronomy 17:5 then shalt thou bring forth that man or that 
woman, who hath done this evil thing, unto thy gates, even the man 
or the woman; and thou shalt stone them to death with stones. 

Deuteronomy 17:6 At the mouth of two witnesses, or three 
witnesses, shall he that is to die be put to death; at the mouth of one 
witness he shall not be put to death. 

Deuteronomy 17:7 The hand of the witnesses shall be first upon him 
to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So thou 
shalt put away the evil from the midst of thee. 

Deuteronomy 17:8 If there arise a matter too hard for thee in 
judgment, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and 
between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within thy 
gates; then shalt thou arise, and get thee up unto the place which 
Jehovah thy God shall choose; 

Deuteronomy 17:9 and thou shalt come unto the priests the Levites, 
and unto the judge that shall be in those days: and thou shalt inquire; 
and they shall show thee the sentence of judgment. 

Deuteronomy 17:10 And thou shalt do according to the tenor of the 
sentence which they shall show thee from that place which Jehovah 
shall choose; and thou shalt observe to do according to all that they 
shall teach thee: 

Deuteronomy 17:11 according to the tenor of the law which they 
shall teach thee, and according to the judgment which they shall tell 
thee, thou shalt do; thou shalt not turn aside from the sentence which 
they shall show thee, to the right hand, nor to the left. 

Deuteronomy 17:12 And the man that doeth presumptuously, in not 
hearkening unto the priest that standeth to minister there before 
Jehovah thy God, or unto the judge, even that man shall die: and thou 
shalt put away the evil from Israel. 


Deuteronomy 17:13 And all the people shall hear, and fear, and do 
no more presumptuously. 

Deuteronomy 17:14 When thou art come unto the land which 
Jehovah thy God giveth thee, and shalt possess it, and shalt dwell 
therein, and shalt say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations 
that are round about me; 

Deuteronomy 17:15 thou shalt surely set him king over thee, whom 
Jehovah thy God shall choose: one from among thy brethren shalt 
thou set king over thee; thou mayest not put a foreigner over thee, 
who is not thy brother. 

Deuteronomy 17:16 Only he shall not multiply horses to himself, 
nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he may 
multiply horses; forasmuch as Jehovah hath said unto you, Ye shall 
henceforth return no more that way. 

Deuteronomy 17:17 Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that 
his heart turn not away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself 
silver and gold. 

Deuteronomy 17:18 And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne 
of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book, 
out of [that which is] before the priests the Levites: 

Deuteronomy 17:19 and it shall be with him, and he shall read 
therein all the days of his life; that he may learn to fear Jehovah his 
God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them; 

Deuteronomy 17:20 that his heart be not lifted up above his 
brethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment, to the 
right hand, or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days in 
his kingdom, he and his children, in the midst of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 18 

Deuteronomy 18:1 The priests the Levites, [even] all the tribe of 
Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat 
the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, and his inheritance. 

Deuteronomy 18:2 And they shall have no inheritance among their 
brethren: Jehovah is their inheritance, as he hath spoken unto them. 


Deuteronomy 18:3 And this shall be the priests' due from the people, 
from them that offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep, that they 
shall give unto the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the 
maw. 

Deuteronomy 18:4 The first-fruits of thy grain, of thy new wine, and 
of thine oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give 
him. 

Deuteronomy 18:5 For Jehovah thy God hath chosen him out of all 
thy tribes, to stand to minister in the name of Jehovah, him and his 
sons for ever. 

Deuteronomy 18:6 And if a Levite come from any of thy gates out 
of all Israel, where he sojourneth, and come with all the desire of his 
soul unto the place which Jehovah shall choose; 

Deuteronomy 18:7 then he shall minister in the name of Jehovah his 
God, as all his brethren the Levites do, who stand there before 
Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 18:8 They shall have like portions to eat, besides that 
which cometh of the sale of his patrimony. 

Deuteronomy 18:9 When thou art come into the land which Jehovah 
thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations 
of those nations. 

Deuteronomy 18:10 There shall not be found with thee any one that 
maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, one that useth 
divination, one that practiseth augury, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer, 

Deuteronomy 18:11 or a charmer, or a consulter with a familiar 
spirit, or a wizard, or a necromancer. 

Deuteronomy 18:12 For whosoever doeth these things is an 
abomination unto Jehovah: and because of these abominations 
Jehovah thy God doth drive them out from before thee. 

Deuteronomy 18:13 Thou shalt be perfect with Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 18:14 For these nations, that thou shalt dispossess, 
hearken unto them that practise augury, and unto diviners; but as for 
thee, Jehovah thy God hath not suffered thee so to do. 


Deuteronomy 18:15 Jehovah thy God will raise up unto thee a 
prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto 
him ye shall hearken; 

Deuteronomy 18:16 according to all that thou desiredst of Jehovah 
thy God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear 
again the voice of Jehovah my God, neither let me see this great fire 
any more, that I die not. 

Deuteronomy 18:17 And Jehovah said unto me, They have well said 
that which they have spoken. 

Deuteronomy 18:18 I will raise them up a prophet from among their 
brethren, like unto thee; and I will put my words in his mouth, and he 
shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. 

Deuteronomy 18:19 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will 
not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will 
require it of him. 

Deuteronomy 18:20 But the prophet, that shall speak a word 
presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to 
speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, that same 
prophet shall die. 

Deuteronomy 18:21 And if thou say in thy heart, How shall we 
know the word which Jehovah hath not spoken? 

Deuteronomy 18:22 when a prophet speaketh in the name of 
Jehovah, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing 
which Jehovah hath not spoken: the prophet hath spoken it 
presumptuously, thou shalt not be afraid of him. 

Deuteronomy 19 

Deuteronomy 19:1 When Jehovah thy God shall cut off the nations, 
whose land Jehovah thy God giveth thee, and thou succeedest them, 
and dwellest in their cities, and in their houses; 

Deuteronomy 19:2 thou shalt set apart three cities for thee in the 
midst of thy land, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee to possess it. 

Deuteronomy 19:3 Thou shalt prepare thee the way, and divide the 
borders of thy land, which Jehovah thy God causeth thee to inherit, 
into three parts, that every manslayer may flee thither. 


Deuteronomy 19:4 And this is the case of the manslayer, that shall 
flee thither and live: whoso killeth his neighbor unawares, and hated 
him not in time past; 

Deuteronomy 19:5 as when a man goeth into the forest with his 
neighbor to hew wood, and his hand fetcheth a stroke with the axe to 
cut down the tree, and the head slippeth from the helve, and lighteth 
upon his neighbor, so that he dieth; he shall flee unto one of these 
cities and live: 

Deuteronomy 19:6 lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, 
while his heart is hot, and overtake him, because the way is long, and 
smite him mortally; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as 
he hated him not in time past. 

Deuteronomy 19:7 Wherefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt 
set apart three cities for thee. 

Deuteronomy 19:8 And if Jehovah thy God enlarge thy border, as he 
hath sworn unto thy fathers, and give thee all the land which he 
promised to give unto thy fathers; 

Deuteronomy 19:9 if thou shalt keep all this commandment to do it, 
which I command thee this day, to love Jehovah thy God, and to walk 
ever in his ways; then shalt thou add three cities more for thee, 
besides these three: 

Deuteronomy 19:10 that innocent blood be not shed in the midst of 
thy land, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and 
so blood be upon thee. 

Deuteronomy 19:11 But if any man hate his neighbor, and lie in wait 
for him, and rise up against him, and smite him mortally so that he 
dieth, and he flee into one of these cities; 

Deuteronomy 19:12 then the elders of his city shall send and fetch 
him thence, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, 
that he may die. 

Deuteronomy 19:13 Thine eye shall not pity him, but thou shalt put 
away the innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with thee. 

Deuteronomy 19:14 Thou shalt not remove thy neighbor's landmark, 
which they of old time have set, in thine inheritance which thou shalt 
inherit, in the land that Jehovah thy God giveth thee to possess it. 


Deuteronomy 19:15 One witness shall not rise up against a man for 
any iniquity, or for any sin, in any sin that he sinneth: at the mouth of 
two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall a matter be 
established. 

Deuteronomy 19:16 If an unrighteous witness rise up against any 
man to testify against him of wrong-doing, 

Deuteronomy 19:17 then both the men, between whom the 
controversy is, shall stand before Jehovah, before the priests and the 
judges that shall be in those days; 

Deuteronomy 19:18 and the judges shall make diligent inquisition: 
and, behold, if the witness be a false witness, and have testified 
falsely against his brother; 

Deuteronomy 19:19 then shall ye do unto him, as he had thought to 
do unto his brother: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of 
thee. 

Deuteronomy 19:20 And those that remain shall hear, and fear, and 
shall henceforth commit no more any such evil in the midst of thee. 

Deuteronomy 19:21 And thine eyes shall not pity; life [shall go] for 
life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. 

Deuteronomy 20 

Deuteronomy 20:1 When thou goest forth to battle against thine 
enemies, and seest horses, and chariots, [and] a people more than 
thou, thou shalt not be afraid of them; for Jehovah thy God is with 
thee, who brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. 

Deuteronomy 20:2 And it shall be, when ye draw nigh unto the 
battle, that the priest shall approach and speak unto the people, 

Deuteronomy 20:3 and shall say unto them, Hear, O Israel, ye draw 
nigh this day unto battle against your enemies: let not your heart 
faint; fear not, nor tremble, neither be ye affrighted at them; 

Deuteronomy 20:4 for Jehovah your God is he that goeth with you, 
to fight for you against your enemies, to save you. 


Deuteronomy 20:5 And the officers shall speak unto the people, 
saying, What man is there that hath built a new house, and hath not 
dedicated it? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the 
battle, and another man dedicate it. 

Deuteronomy 20:6 And what man is there that hath planted a 
vineyard, and hath not used the fruit thereof? let him go and return 
unto his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man use the fruit 
thereof. 

Deuteronomy 20:7 And what man is there that hath betrothed a wife, 
and hath not taken her? let him go and return unto his house, lest he 
die in the battle, and another man take her. 

Deuteronomy 20:8 And the officers shall speak further unto the 
people, and they shall say, What man is there that is fearful and fainthearted? 
let him go and return unto his house, lest his brethren's heart 
melt as his heart. 

Deuteronomy 20:9 And it shall be, when the officers have made an 
end of speaking unto the people, that they shall appoint captains of 
hosts at the head of the people. 

Deuteronomy 20:10 When thou drawest nigh unto a city to fight 
against it, then proclaim peace unto it. 

Deuteronomy 20:11 And it shall be, if it make thee answer of peace, 
and open unto thee, then it shall be, that all the people that are found 
therein shall become tributary unto thee, and shall serve thee. 

Deuteronomy 20:12 And if it will make no peace with thee, but will 
make war against thee, then thou shalt besiege it: 

Deuteronomy 20:13 and when Jehovah thy God delivereth it into thy 
hand, thou shalt smite every male thereof with the edge of the sword: 

Deuteronomy 20:14 but the women, and the little ones, and the 
cattle, and all that is in the city, even all the spoil thereof, shalt thou 
take for a prey unto thyself; and thou shalt eat the spoil of thine 
enemies, which Jehovah thy God hath given thee. 

Deuteronomy 20:15 Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities which are 
very far off from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations. 


Deuteronomy 20:16 But of the cities of these peoples, that Jehovah 
thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing 
that breatheth; 

Deuteronomy 20:17 but thou shalt utterly destroy them: the Hittite, 
and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the 
Jebusite; as Jehovah thy God hath commanded thee; 

Deuteronomy 20:18 that they teach you not to do after all their 
abominations, which they have done unto their gods; so would ye sin 
against Jehovah your God. 

Deuteronomy 20:19 When thou shalt besiege a city a long time, in 
making war against it to take it, thou shalt not destroy the trees 
thereof by wielding an axe against them; for thou mayest eat of them, 
and thou shalt not cut them down; for is the tree of the field man, that 
it should be besieged of thee? 

Deuteronomy 20:20 Only the trees of which thou knowest that they 
are not trees for food, thou shalt destroy and cut them down; and thou 
shalt build bulwarks against the city that maketh war with thee, until 
it fall. 

Deuteronomy 21 

Deuteronomy 21:1 If one be found slain in the land which Jehovah 
thy God giveth thee to possess it, lying in the field, and it be not 
known who hath smitten him; 

Deuteronomy 21:2 then thy elders and thy judges shall come forth, 
and they shall measure unto the cities which are round about him that 
is slain: 

Deuteronomy 21:3 and it shall be, that the city which is nearest unto 
the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a heifer of the 
herd, which hath not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in 
the yoke; 

Deuteronomy 21:4 and the elders of that city shall bring down the 
heifer unto a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor 
sown, and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley. 


Deuteronomy 21:5 And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near; 
for them Jehovah thy God hath chosen to minister unto him, and to 
bless in the name of Jehovah; and according to their word shall every 
controversy and every stroke be. 

Deuteronomy 21:6 And all the elders of that city, who are nearest 
unto the slain man, shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck 
was broken in the valley; 

Deuteronomy 21:7 and they shall answer and say, Our hands have 
not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it. 

Deuteronomy 21:8 Forgive, O Jehovah, thy people Israel, whom 
thou hast redeemed, and suffer not innocent blood [to remain] in the 
midst of thy people Israel. And the blood shall be forgiven them. 

Deuteronomy 21:9 So shalt thou put away the innocent blood from 
the midst of thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in the eyes of 
Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 21:10 When thou goest forth to battle against thine 
enemies, and Jehovah thy God delivereth them into thy hands, and 
thou carriest them away captive, 

Deuteronomy 21:11 and seest among the captives a beautiful 
woman, and thou hast a desire unto her, and wouldest take her to thee 
to wife; 

Deuteronomy 21:12 then thou shalt bring her home to thy house; 
and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails; 

Deuteronomy 21:13 and she shall put the raiment of her captivity 
from off her, and shall remain in thy house, and bewail her father and 
her mother a full month: and after that thou shalt go in unto her, and 
be her husband, and she shall be thy wife. 

Deuteronomy 21:14 And it shall be, if thou have no delight in her, 
then thou shalt let her go whither she will; but thou shalt not sell her 
at all for money, thou shalt not deal with her as a slave, because thou 
hast humbled her. 

Deuteronomy 21:15 If a man have two wives, the one beloved, and 
the other hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved 
and the hated; and if the first-born son be hers that was hated; 


Deuteronomy 21:16 then it shall be, in the day that he causeth his 
sons to inherit that which he hath, that he may not make the son of 
the beloved the first-born before the son of the hated, who is the firstborn: 


Deuteronomy 21:17 but he shall acknowledge the first-born, the son 
of the hated, by giving him a double portion of all that he hath; for he 
is the beginning of his strength; the right of the first-born is his. 

Deuteronomy 21:18 If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, 
that will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, 
and, though they chasten him, will not hearken unto them; 

Deuteronomy 21:19 then shall his father and his mother lay hold on 
him, and bring him out unto the elders of his city, and unto the gate 
of his place; 

Deuteronomy 21:20 and they shall say unto the elders of his city, 
This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he 
is a glutton, and a drunkard. 

Deuteronomy 21:21 And all the men of his city shall stone him to 
death with stones: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of 
thee; and all Israel shall hear, and fear. 

Deuteronomy 21:22 And if a man have committed a sin worthy of 
death, and he be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree; 

Deuteronomy 21:23 his body shall not remain all night upon the 
tree, but thou shalt surely bury him the same day; for he that is 
hanged is accursed of God; that thou defile not thy land which 
Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance. 

Deuteronomy 22 

Deuteronomy 22:1 Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his sheep 
go astray, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt surely bring them 
again unto thy brother. 

Deuteronomy 22:2 And if thy brother be not nigh unto thee, or if 
thou know him not, then thou shalt bring it home to thy house, and it 
shall be with thee until thy brother seek after it, and thou shalt restore 
it to him. 


Deuteronomy 22:3 And so shalt thou do with his ass; and so shalt 
thou do with his garment; and so shalt thou do with every lost thing 
of thy brother's, which he hath lost, and thou hast found: thou mayest 
not hide thyself. 

Deuteronomy 22:4 Thou shalt not see thy brother's ass or his ox 
fallen down by the way, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt surely 
help him to lift them up again. 

Deuteronomy 22:5 A woman shall not wear that which pertaineth 
unto a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment; for 
whosoever doeth these things is an abomination unto Jehovah thy 
God. 

Deuteronomy 22:6 If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the 
way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the 
dam sitting upon the young, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the 
dam with the young: 

Deuteronomy 22:7 thou shalt surely let the dam go, but the young 
thou mayest take unto thyself; that it may be well with thee, and that 
thou mayest prolong thy days. 

Deuteronomy 22:8 When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt 
make a battlement for thy roof, that thou bring not blood upon thy 
house, if any man fall from thence. 

Deuteronomy 22:9 Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with two kinds 
of seed, lest the whole fruit be forfeited, the seed which thou hast 
sown, and the increase of the vineyard. 

Deuteronomy 22:10 Thou shalt not plow with an ox and an ass 
together. 

Deuteronomy 22:11 Thou shalt not wear a mingled stuff, wool and 
linen together. 

Deuteronomy 22:12 Thou shalt make thee fringes upon the four 
borders of thy vesture, wherewith thou coverest thyself. 

Deuteronomy 22:13 If any man take a wife, and go in unto her, and 
hate her, 

Deuteronomy 22:14 and lay shameful things to her charge, and bring 
up an evil name upon her, and say, I took this woman, and when I 
came nigh to her, I found not in her the tokens of virginity; 


Deuteronomy 22:15 then shall the father of the damsel, and her 
mother, take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel's virginity unto 
the elders of the city in the gate; 

Deuteronomy 22:16 and the damsel's father shall say unto the elders, 
I gave my daughter unto this man to wife, and he hateth her; 

Deuteronomy 22:17 and, lo, he hath laid shameful things [to her 
charge], saying, I found not in thy daughter the tokens of virginity; 
and yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall 
spread the garment before the elders of the city. 

Deuteronomy 22:18 And the elders of that city shall take the man 
and chastise him; 

Deuteronomy 22:19 and they shall fine him a hundred [shekels] of 
silver, and give them unto the father of the damsel, because he hath 
brought up an evil name upon a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his 
wife; he may not put her away all his days. 

Deuteronomy 22:20 But if this thing be true, that the tokens of 
virginity were not found in the damsel; 

Deuteronomy 22:21 then they shall bring out the damsel to the door 
of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death 
with stones, because she hath wrought folly in Israel, to play the 
harlot in her father's house: so shalt thou put away the evil from the 
midst of thee. 

Deuteronomy 22:22 If a man be found lying with a woman married 
to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man that lay with 
the woman, and the woman: so shalt thou put away the evil from 
Israel. 

Deuteronomy 22:23 If there be a damsel that is a virgin betrothed 
unto a husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her; 

Deuteronomy 22:24 then ye shall bring them both out unto the gate 
of that city, and ye shall stone them to death with stones; the damsel, 
because she cried not, being in the city; and the man, because he hath 
humbled his neighbor's wife: so thou shalt put away the evil from the 
midst of thee. 


Deuteronomy 22:25 But if the man find the damsel that is betrothed 
in the field, and the man force her, and lie with her; then the man 
only that lay with her shall die: 

Deuteronomy 22:26 but unto the damsel thou shalt do nothing; there 
is in the damsel no sin worthy of death: for as when a man riseth 
against his neighbor, and slayeth him, even so is this matter; 

Deuteronomy 22:27 for he found her in the field, the betrothed 
damsel cried, and there was none to save her. 

Deuteronomy 22:28 If a man find a damsel that is a virgin, that is 
not betrothed, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be 
found; 

Deuteronomy 22:29 then the man that lay with her shall give unto 
the damsel's father fifty [shekels] of silver, and she shall be his wife, 
because he hath humbled her; he may not put her away all his days. 

Deuteronomy 22:30 A man shall not take his father's wife, and shall 
not uncover his father's skirt. 

Deuteronomy 23 

Deuteronomy 23:1 He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his 
privy member cut off, shall not enter into the assembly of Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 23:2 A bastard shall not enter into the assembly of 
Jehovah; even to the tenth generation shall none of his enter into the 
assembly of Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 23:3 An Ammonite or a Moabite shall not enter into 
the assembly of Jehovah; even to the tenth generation shall none 
belonging to them enter into the assembly of Jehovah for ever: 

Deuteronomy 23:4 because they met you not with bread and with 
water in the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt, and because they 
hired against thee Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of 
Mesopotamia, to curse thee. 

Deuteronomy 23:5 Nevertheless Jehovah thy God would not 
hearken unto Balaam; but Jehovah thy God turned the curse into a 
blessing unto thee, because Jehovah thy God loved thee. 


Deuteronomy 23:6 Thou shalt not seek their peace nor their 
prosperity all thy days for ever. 

Deuteronomy 23:7 Thou shalt not abhor an Edomite; for he is thy 
brother: thou shalt not abhor an Egyptian, because thou wast a 
sojourner in his land. 

Deuteronomy 23:8 The children of the third generation that are born 
unto them shall enter into the assembly of Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 23:9 When thou goest forth in camp against thine 
enemies, then thou shalt keep thee from every evil thing. 

Deuteronomy 23:10 If there be among you any man, that is not clean 
by reason of that which chanceth him by night, then shall he go 
abroad out of the camp, he shall not come within the camp: 

Deuteronomy 23:11 but it shall be, when evening cometh on, he 
shall bathe himself in water; and when the sun is down, he shall come 
within the camp. 

Deuteronomy 23:12 Thou shalt have a place also without the camp, 
whither thou shalt go forth abroad: 

Deuteronomy 23:13 and thou shalt have a paddle among thy 
weapons; and it shall be, when thou sittest down abroad, thou shalt 
dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which cometh from 
thee: 

Deuteronomy 23:14 for Jehovah thy God walketh in the midst of thy 
camp, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before thee; 
therefore shall thy camp be holy, that he may not see an unclean thing 
in thee, and turn away from thee. 

Deuteronomy 23:15 Thou shalt not deliver unto his master a servant 
that is escaped from his master unto thee: 

Deuteronomy 23:16 he shall dwell with thee, in the midst of thee, in 
the place which he shall choose within one of thy gates, where it 
pleaseth him best: thou shalt not oppress him. 

Deuteronomy 23:17 There shall be no prostitute of the daughters of 
Israel, neither shall there be a sodomite of the sons of Israel. 


Deuteronomy 23:18 Thou shalt not bring the hire of a harlot, or the 
wages of a dog, into the house of Jehovah thy God for any vow: for 
even both these are an abomination unto Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 23:19 Thou shalt not lend upon interest to thy brother; 
interest of money, interest of victuals, interest of anything that is lent 
upon interest: 

Deuteronomy 23:20 unto a foreigner thou mayest lend upon interest; 
but unto thy brother thou shalt not lend upon interest, that Jehovah 
thy God may bless thee in all that thou puttest thy hand unto, in the 
land whither thou goest in to possess it. 

Deuteronomy 23:21 When thou shalt vow a vow unto Jehovah thy 
God, thou shalt not be slack to pay it: for Jehovah thy God will surely 
require it of thee; and it would be sin in thee. 

Deuteronomy 23:22 But if thou shalt forbear to vow, it shall be no 
sin in thee. 

Deuteronomy 23:23 That which is gone out of thy lips thou shalt 
observe and do; according as thou hast vowed unto Jehovah thy God, 
a freewill-offering, which thou hast promised with thy mouth. 

Deuteronomy 23:24 When thou comest into thy neighbor's vineyard, 
then thou mayest eat of grapes thy fill at thine own pleasure; but thou 
shalt not put any in thy vessel. 

Deuteronomy 23:25 When thou comest into thy neighbor's standing 
grain, then thou mayest pluck the ears with thy hand; but thou shalt 
not move a sickle unto thy neighbor's standing grain. 

Deuteronomy 24 

Deuteronomy 24:1 When a man taketh a wife, and marrieth her, then 
it shall be, if she find no favor in his eyes, because he hath found 
some unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of 
divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house. 

Deuteronomy 24:2 And when she is departed out of his house, she 
may go and be another man's [wife]. 

Deuteronomy 24:3 And if the latter husband hate her, and write her 
a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his 
house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife; 


Deuteronomy 24:4 her former husband, who sent her away, may not 
take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is 
abomination before Jehovah: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, 
which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance. 

Deuteronomy 24:5 When a man taketh a new wife, he shall not go 
out in the host, neither shall he be charged with any business: he shall 
be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he hath 
taken. 

Deuteronomy 24:6 No man shall take the mill or the upper millstone 
to pledge; for he taketh [a man's] life to pledge. 

Deuteronomy 24:7 If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of 
the children of Israel, and he deal with him as a slave, or sell him; 
then that thief shall die: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst 
of thee. 

Deuteronomy 24:8 Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou 
observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites 
shall teach you: as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do. 

Deuteronomy 24:9 Remember what Jehovah thy God did unto 
Miriam, by the way as ye came forth out of Egypt. 

Deuteronomy 24:10 When thou dost lend thy neighbor any manner 
of loan, thou shalt not go into his house to fetch his pledge. 

Deuteronomy 24:11 Thou shalt stand without, and the man to whom 
thou dost lend shall bring forth the pledge without unto thee. 

Deuteronomy 24:12 And if he be a poor man, thou shalt not sleep 
with his pledge; 

Deuteronomy 24:13 thou shalt surely restore to him the pledge when 
the sun goeth down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless thee: 
and it shall be righteousness unto thee before Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 24:14 Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is 
poor and needy, whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy sojourners 
that are in thy land within thy gates: 

Deuteronomy 24:15 in his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither 
shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart 
upon it: lest he cry against thee unto Jehovah, and it be sin unto thee. 


Deuteronomy 24:16 The fathers shall not be put to death for the 
children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: 
every man shall be put to death for his own sin. 

Deuteronomy 24:17 Thou shalt not wrest the justice [due] to the 
sojourner, [or] to the fatherless, nor take the widow's raiment to 
pledge; 

Deuteronomy 24:18 but thou shalt remember that thou wast a 
bondman in Egypt, and Jehovah thy God redeemed thee thence: 
therefore I command thee to do this thing. 

Deuteronomy 24:19 When thou reapest thy harvest in thy field, and 
hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it 
shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that 
Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy hands. 

Deuteronomy 24:20 When thou beatest thine olive-tree, thou shalt 
not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the sojourner, for the 
fatherless, and for the widow. 

Deuteronomy 24:21 When thou gatherest [the grapes of] thy 
vineyard, thou shalt not glean it after thee: it shall be for the 
sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow. 

Deuteronomy 24:22 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a 
bondman in the land of Egypt: therefore I command thee to do this 
thing. 

Deuteronomy 25 

Deuteronomy 25:1 If there be a controversy between men, and they 
come unto judgment, and [the judges] judge them; then they shall 
justify the righteous, and condemn the wicked; 

Deuteronomy 25:2 and it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be 
beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten 
before his face, according to his wickedness, by number. 

Deuteronomy 25:3 Forty stripes he may give him, he shall not 
exceed; lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with 
many stripes, then thy brother should seem vile unto thee. 


Deuteronomy 25:4 Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth 
out [the grain]. 

Deuteronomy 25:5 If brethren dwell together, and one of them die, 
and have no son, the wife of the dead shall not be married without 
unto a stranger: her husband's brother shall go in unto her, and take 
her to him to wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother unto 
her. 

Deuteronomy 25:6 And it shall be, that the first-born that she 
beareth shall succeed in the name of his brother that is dead, that his 
name be not blotted out of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 25:7 And if the man like not to take his brother's wife, 
then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate unto the elders, and say, 
My husband's brother refuseth to raise up unto his brother a name in 
Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother unto me. 

Deuteronomy 25:8 Then the elders of his city shall call him, and 
speak unto him: and if he stand, and say, I like not to take her; 

Deuteronomy 25:9 then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the 
presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit 
in his face; and she shall answer and say, So shall it be done unto the 
man that doth not build up his brother's house. 

Deuteronomy 25:10 And his name shall be called in Israel, The 
house of him that hath his shoe loosed. 

Deuteronomy 25:11 When men strive together one with another, and 
the wife of the one draweth near to deliver her husband out of the 
hand of him that smiteth him, and putteth forth her hand, and taketh 
him by the secrets; 

Deuteronomy 25:12 then thou shalt cut off her hand, thine eye shall 
have no pity. 

Deuteronomy 25:13 Thou shalt not have in thy bag diverse weights, 
a great and a small. 

Deuteronomy 25:14 Thou shalt not have in thy house diverse 
measures, a great and a small. 

Deuteronomy 25:15 A perfect and just weight shalt thou have; a 
perfect and just measure shalt thou have: that thy days may be long in 
the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee. 


Deuteronomy 25:16 For all that do such things, [even] all that do 
unrighteously, are an abomination unto Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 25:17 Remember what Amalek did unto thee by the 
way as ye came forth out of Egypt; 

Deuteronomy 25:18 how he met thee by the way, and smote the 
hindmost of thee, all that were feeble behind thee, when thou wast 
faint and weary; and he feared not God. 

Deuteronomy 25:19 Therefore it shall be, when Jehovah thy God 
hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about, in the land 
which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it, 
that thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under 
heaven; thou shalt not forget. 

Deuteronomy 26 

Deuteronomy 26:1 And it shall be, when thou art come in unto the 
land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and 
possessest it, and dwellest therein, 

Deuteronomy 26:2 that thou shalt take of the first of all the fruit of 
the ground, which thou shalt bring in from thy land that Jehovah thy 
God giveth thee; and thou shalt put it in a basket, and shalt go unto 
the place which Jehovah thy God shall choose, to cause his name to 
dwell there. 

Deuteronomy 26:3 And thou shalt come unto the priest that shall be 
in those days, and say unto him, I profess this day unto Jehovah thy 
God, that I am come unto the land which Jehovah sware unto our 
fathers to give us. 

Deuteronomy 26:4 And the priest shall take the basket out of thy 
hand, and set it down before the altar of Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 26:5 And thou shalt answer and say before Jehovah 
thy God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down 
into Egypt, and sojourned there, few in number; and he became there 
a nation, great, mighty, and populous. 

Deuteronomy 26:6 And the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted 
us, and laid upon us hard bondage: 


Deuteronomy 26:7 and we cried unto Jehovah, the God of our 
fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our 
toil, and our oppression; 

Deuteronomy 26:8 and Jehovah brought us forth out of Egypt with a 
mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great 
terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders; 

Deuteronomy 26:9 and he hath brought us into this place, and hath 
given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. 

Deuteronomy 26:10 And now, behold, I have brought the first of the 
fruit of the ground, which thou, O Jehovah, hast given me. And thou 
shalt set it down before Jehovah thy God, and worship before 
Jehovah thy God: 

Deuteronomy 26:11 and thou shalt rejoice in all the good which 
Jehovah thy God hath given unto thee, and unto thy house, thou, and 
the Levite, and the sojourner that is in the midst of thee. 

Deuteronomy 26:12 When thou hast made an end of tithing all the 
tithe of thine increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, 
then thou shalt give it unto the Levite, to the sojourner, to the 
fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within thy gates, and 
be filled. 

Deuteronomy 26:13 And thou shalt say before Jehovah thy God, I 
have put away the hallowed things out of my house, and also have 
given them unto the Levite, and unto the sojourner, to the fatherless, 
and to the widow, according to all thy commandment which thou hast 
commanded me: I have not transgressed any of thy commandments, 
neither have I forgotten them: 

Deuteronomy 26:14 I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, 
neither have I put away thereof, being unclean, nor given thereof for 
the dead: I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah my God; I have 
done according to all that thou hast commanded me. 

Deuteronomy 26:15 Look down from thy holy habitation, from 
heaven, and bless thy people Israel, and the ground which thou hast 
given us, as thou swarest unto our fathers, a land flowing with milk 
and honey. 

Deuteronomy 26:16 This day Jehovah thy God commandeth thee to 
do these statutes and ordinances: thou shalt therefore keep and do 
them with all thy heart, and with all thy soul. 


Deuteronomy 26:17 Thou hast avouched Jehovah this day to be thy 
God, and that thou wouldest walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, 
and his commandments, and his ordinances, and hearken unto his 
voice: 

Deuteronomy 26:18 and Jehovah hath avouched thee this day to be a 
people for his own possession, as he hath promised thee, and that 
thou shouldest keep all his commandments; 

Deuteronomy 26:19 and to make thee high above all nations that he 
hath made, in praise, and in name, and in honor; and that thou mayest 
be a holy people unto Jehovah thy God, as he hath spoken. 

Deuteronomy 27 

Deuteronomy 27:1 And Moses and the elders of Israel commanded 
the people, saying, Keep all the commandment which I command you 
this day. 

Deuteronomy 27:2 And it shall be on the day when ye shall pass 
over the Jordan unto the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee, 
that thou shalt set thee up great stones, and plaster them with plaster: 

Deuteronomy 27:3 and thou shalt write upon them all the words of 
this law, when thou art passed over; that thou mayest go in unto the 
land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee, a land flowing with milk 
and honey, as Jehovah, the God of thy fathers, hath promised thee. 

Deuteronomy 27:4 And it shall be, when ye are passed over the 
Jordan, that ye shall set up these stones, which I command you this 
day, in mount Ebal, and thou shalt plaster them with plaster. 

Deuteronomy 27:5 And there shalt thou build an altar unto Jehovah 
thy God, an altar of stones: thou shalt lift up no iron [tool] upon them. 

Deuteronomy 27:6 Thou shalt build the altar of Jehovah thy God of 
unhewn stones; and thou shalt offer burnt-offerings thereon unto 
Jehovah thy God: 

Deuteronomy 27:7 and thou shalt sacrifice peace-offerings, and shalt 
eat there; and thou shalt rejoice before Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 27:8 And thou shalt write upon the stones all the 
words of this law very plainly. 


Deuteronomy 27:9 And Moses and the priests the Levites spake unto 
all Israel, saying, Keep silence, and hearken, O Israel: this day thou 
art become the people of Jehovah thy God. 

Deuteronomy 27:10 Thou shalt therefore obey the voice of Jehovah 
thy God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I 
command thee this day. 

Deuteronomy 27:11 And Moses charged the people the same day, 
saying, 

Deuteronomy 27:12 These shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless 
the people, when ye are passed over the Jordan: Simeon, and Levi, 
and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin. 

Deuteronomy 27:13 And these shall stand upon mount Ebal for the 
curse: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 

Deuteronomy 27:14 And the Levites shall answer, and say unto all 
the men of Israel with a loud voice, 

Deuteronomy 27:15 Cursed be the man that maketh a graven or 
molten image, an abomination unto Jehovah, the work of the hands of 
the craftsman, and setteth it up in secret. And all the people shall 
answer and say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:16 Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or 
his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:17 Cursed be he that removeth his neighbor's 
landmark. And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:18 Cursed be he that maketh the blind to wander 
out of the way. And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:19 Cursed be he that wresteth the justice [due] to 
the sojourner, fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, 
Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:20 Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife, 
because he hath uncovered his father's skirt. And all the people shall 
say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:21 Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of 
beast. And all the people shall say, Amen. 


Deuteronomy 27:22 Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the 
daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother. And all the 
people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:23 Cursed be he that lieth with his mother-in-law. 
And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:24 Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbor in secret. 
And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:25 Cursed be he that taketh a bribe to slay an 
innocent person. And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 27:26 Cursed be he that confirmeth not the words of 
this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen. 

Deuteronomy 28 

Deuteronomy 28:1 And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken 
diligently unto the voice of Jehovah thy God, to observe to do all his 
commandments which I command thee this day, that Jehovah thy 
God will set thee on high above all the nations of the earth: 

Deuteronomy 28:2 and all these blessings shall come upon thee, and 
overtake thee, if thou shalt hearken unto the voice of Jehovah thy 
God. 

Deuteronomy 28:3 Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed 
shalt thou be in the field. 

Deuteronomy 28:4 Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the 
fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy beasts, the increase of thy 
cattle, and the young of thy flock. 

Deuteronomy 28:5 Blessed shall be thy basket and thy kneadingtrough. 


Deuteronomy 28:6 Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and 
blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out. 

Deuteronomy 28:7 Jehovah will cause thine enemies that rise up 
against thee to be smitten before thee: they shall come out against 
thee one way, and shall flee before thee seven ways. 


Deuteronomy 28:8 Jehovah will command the blessing upon thee in 
thy barns, and in all that thou puttest thy hand unto; and he will bless 
thee in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:9 Jehovah will establish thee for a holy people unto 
himself, as he hath sworn unto thee; if thou shalt keep the 
commandments of Jehovah thy God, and walk in his ways. 

Deuteronomy 28:10 And all the peoples of the earth shall see that 
thou art called by the name of Jehovah; and they shall be afraid of 
thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:11 And Jehovah will make thee plenteous for 
good, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the 
fruit of thy ground, in the land which Jehovah sware unto thy fathers 
to give thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:12 Jehovah will open unto thee his good treasure 
the heavens, to give the rain of thy land in its season, and to bless all 
the work of thy hand: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and 
thou shalt not borrow. 

Deuteronomy 28:13 And Jehovah will make thee the head, and not 
the tail; and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; 
if thou shalt hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah thy God, 
which I command thee this day, to observe and to do [them], 

Deuteronomy 28:14 and shalt not turn aside from any of the words 
which I command you this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to go 
after other gods to serve them. 

Deuteronomy 28:15 But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not 
hearken unto the voice of Jehovah thy God, to observe to do all his 
commandments and his statutes which I command thee this day, that 
all these curses shall come upon thee, and overtake thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:16 Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed 
shalt thou be in the field. 

Deuteronomy 28:17 Cursed shall be thy basket and thy kneadingtrough. 


Deuteronomy 28:18 Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the 
fruit of thy ground, the increase of thy cattle, and the young of thy 
flock. 


Deuteronomy 28:19 Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and 
cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out. 

Deuteronomy 28:20 Jehovah will send upon thee cursing, 
discomfiture, and rebuke, in all that thou puttest thy hand unto to do, 
until thou be destroyed, and until thou perish quickly; because of the 
evil of thy doings, whereby thou hast forsaken me. 

Deuteronomy 28:21 Jehovah will make the pestilence cleave unto 
thee, until he have consumed thee from off the land, whither thou 
goest in to possess it. 

Deuteronomy 28:22 Jehovah will smite thee with consumption, and 
with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the 
sword, and with blasting, and with mildew; and they shall pursue thee 
until thou perish. 

Deuteronomy 28:23 And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be 
brass, and the earth that is under thee shall be iron. 

Deuteronomy 28:24 Jehovah will make the rain of thy land powder 
and dust: from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be 
destroyed. 

Deuteronomy 28:25 Jehovah will cause thee to be smitten before 
thine enemies; thou shalt go out one way against them, and shalt flee 
seven ways before them: and thou shalt be tossed to and from among 
all the kingdoms of the earth. 

Deuteronomy 28:26 And thy dead body shall be food unto all birds 
of the heavens, and unto the beasts of the earth; and there shall be 
none to frighten them away. 

Deuteronomy 28:27 Jehovah will smite thee with the boil of Egypt, 
and with the emerods, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, whereof 
thou canst not be healed. 

Deuteronomy 28:28 Jehovah will smite thee with madness, and with 
blindness, and with astonishment of heart; 

Deuteronomy 28:29 and thou shalt grope at noonday, as the blind 
gropeth in darkness, and thou shalt not prosper in thy ways: and thou 
shalt be only oppressed and robbed alway, and there shall be none to 
save thee. 


Deuteronomy 28:30 Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man 
shall lie with her: thou shalt build a house, and thou shalt not dwell 
therein: thou shalt plant a vineyard, and shalt not use the fruit thereof. 

Deuteronomy 28:31 Thine ox shall be slain before thine eyes, and 
thou shalt not eat thereof: thine ass shall be violently taken away 
from before thy face, and shall not be restored to thee: thy sheep shall 
be given unto thine enemies, and thou shalt have none to save thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:32 Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given unto 
another people; and thine eyes shall look, and fail with longing for 
them all the day: and there shall be nought in the power of thy hand. 

Deuteronomy 28:33 The fruit of thy ground, and all thy labors, shall 
a nation which thou knowest not eat up; and thou shalt be only 
oppressed and crushed alway; 

Deuteronomy 28:34 so that thou shalt be mad for the sight of thine 
eyes which thou shalt see. 

Deuteronomy 28:35 Jehovah will smite thee in the knees, and in the 
legs, with a sore boil, whereof thou canst not be healed, from the sole 
of thy foot unto the crown of thy head. 

Deuteronomy 28:36 Jehovah will bring thee, and thy king whom 
thou shalt set over thee, unto a nation that thou hast not known, thou 
nor thy fathers; and there shalt thou serve other gods, wood and 
stone. 

Deuteronomy 28:37 And thou shalt become an astonishment, a 
proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples whither Jehovah shall 
lead thee away. 

Deuteronomy 28:38 Thou shalt carry much seed out into the field, 
and shalt gather little in; for the locust shall consume it. 

Deuteronomy 28:39 Thou shalt plant vineyards and dress them, but 
thou shalt neither drink of the wine, nor gather [the grapes]; for the 
worm shall eat them. 

Deuteronomy 28:40 Thou shalt have olive-trees throughout all thy 
borders, but thou shalt not anoint thyself with the oil; for thine olive 
shall cast [its fruit]. 

Deuteronomy 28:41 Thou shalt beget sons and daughters, but they 
shall not be thine; for they shall go into captivity. 


Deuteronomy 28:42 All thy trees and the fruit of thy ground shall 
the locust possess. 

Deuteronomy 28:43 The sojourner that is in the midst of thee shall 
mount up above thee higher and higher; and thou shalt come down 
lower and lower. 

Deuteronomy 28:44 He shall lend to thee, and thou shalt not lend to 
him: he shall be the head, and thou shalt be the tail. 

Deuteronomy 28:45 And all these curses shall come upon thee, and 
shall pursue thee, and overtake thee, till thou be destroyed; because 
thou hearkenedst not unto the voice of Jehovah thy God, to keep his 
commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee: 

Deuteronomy 28:46 and they shall be upon thee for a sign and for a 
wonder, and upon thy seed for ever. 

Deuteronomy 28:47 Because thou servedst not Jehovah thy God 
with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the 
abundance of all things; 

Deuteronomy 28:48 therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies that 
Jehovah shall send against thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in 
nakedness, and in want of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron 
upon thy neck, until he have destroyed thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:49 Jehovah will bring a nation against thee from 
far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flieth; a nation whose 
tongue thou shalt not understand; 

Deuteronomy 28:50 a nation of fierce countenance, that shall not 
regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young, 

Deuteronomy 28:51 and shall eat the fruit of thy cattle, and the fruit 
of thy ground, until thou be destroyed; that also shall not leave thee 
grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of thy cattle, or the young of thy 
flock, until they have caused thee to perish. 

Deuteronomy 28:52 And they shall besiege thee in all thy gates, 
until thy high and fortified walls come down, wherein thou trustedst, 
throughout all thy land; and they shall besiege thee in all thy gates 
throughout all thy land, which Jehovah thy God hath given thee. 


Deuteronomy 28:53 And thou shalt eat the fruit of thine own body, 
the flesh of thy sons and of thy daughters, whom Jehovah thy God 
hath given thee, in the siege and in the distress wherewith thine 
enemies shall distress thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:54 The man that is tender among you, and very 
delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife 
of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he hath 
remaining; 

Deuteronomy 28:55 so that he will not give to any of them of the 
flesh of his children whom he shall eat, because he hath nothing left 
him, in the siege and in the distress wherewith thine enemy shall 
distress thee in all thy gates. 

Deuteronomy 28:56 The tender and delicate woman among you, 
who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot upon the ground 
for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the 
husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter, 

Deuteronomy 28:57 and toward her young one that cometh out from 
between her feet, and toward her children whom she shall bear; for 
she shall eat them for want of all things secretly, in the siege and in 
the distress wherewith thine enemy shall distress thee in thy gates. 

Deuteronomy 28:58 If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of 
this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this 
glorious and fearful name, JEHOVAH THY GOD; 

Deuteronomy 28:59 then Jehovah will make thy plagues wonderful, 
and the plagues of thy seed, even great plagues, and of long 
continuance, and sore sicknesses, and of long continuance. 

Deuteronomy 28:60 And he will bring upon thee again all the 
diseases of Egypt, which thou wast afraid of; and they shall cleave 
unto thee. 

Deuteronomy 28:61 Also every sickness, and every plague, which is 
not written in the book of this law, them will Jehovah bring upon 
thee, until thou be destroyed. 

Deuteronomy 28:62 And ye shall be left few in number, whereas ye 
were as the stars of heaven for multitude; because thou didst not 
hearken unto the voice of Jehovah thy God. 


Deuteronomy 28:63 And it shall come to pass, that, as Jehovah 
rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you, so Jehovah 
will rejoice over you to cause you to perish, and to destroy you; and 
ye shall be plucked from off the land whither thou goest in to possess 
it. 

Deuteronomy 28:64 And Jehovah will scatter thee among all 
peoples, from the one end of the earth even unto the other end of the 
earth; and there thou shalt serve other gods, which thou hast not 
known, thou nor thy fathers, even wood and stone. 

Deuteronomy 28:65 And among these nations shalt thou find no 
ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of thy foot: but Jehovah 
will give thee there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining 
of soul; 

Deuteronomy 28:66 and thy life shall hang in doubt before thee; and 
thou shalt fear night and day, and shalt have no assurance of thy life. 

Deuteronomy 28:67 In the morning thou shalt say, Would it were 
even! and at even thou shalt say, Would it were morning! for the fear 
of thy heart which thou shalt fear, and for the sight of thine eyes 
which thou shalt see. 

Deuteronomy 28:68 And Jehovah will bring thee into Egypt again 
with ships, by the way whereof I said unto thee, Thou shalt see it no 
more again: and there ye shall sell yourselves unto your enemies for 
bondmen and for bondwomen, and no man shall buy you. 

Deuteronomy 29 

Deuteronomy 29:1 These are the words of the covenant which 
Jehovah commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the 
land of Moab, besides the covenant which he made with them in 
Horeb. 

Deuteronomy 29:2 And Moses called unto all Israel, and said unto 
them, Ye have seen all that Jehovah did before your eyes in the land 
of Egypt unto Pharaoh, and unto all his servants, and unto all his 
land; 

Deuteronomy 29:3 the great trials which thine eyes saw, the signs, 
and those great wonders: 


Deuteronomy 29:4 but Jehovah hath not given you a heart to know, 
and eyes to see, and ears to hear, unto this day. 

Deuteronomy 29:5 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness: 
your clothes are not waxed old upon you, and thy shoe is not waxed 
old upon thy foot. 

Deuteronomy 29:6 Ye have not eaten bread, neither have ye drunk 
wine or strong drink; that ye may know that I am Jehovah your God. 

Deuteronomy 29:7 And when ye came unto this place, Sihon the 
king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us 
unto battle, and we smote them: 

Deuteronomy 29:8 and we took their land, and gave it for an 
inheritance unto the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the halftribe 
of the Manassites. 

Deuteronomy 29:9 Keep therefore the words of this covenant, and 
do them, that ye may prosper in all that ye do. 

Deuteronomy 29:10 Ye stand this day all of you before Jehovah 
your God; your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, 
even all the men of Israel, 

Deuteronomy 29:11 your little ones, your wives, and thy sojourner 
that is in the midst of thy camps, from the hewer of thy wood unto the 
drawer of thy water; 

Deuteronomy 29:12 that thou mayest enter into the covenant of 
Jehovah thy God, and into his oath, which Jehovah thy God maketh 
with thee this day; 

Deuteronomy 29:13 that he may establish thee this day unto himself 
for a people, and that he may be unto thee a God, as he spake unto 
thee, and as he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to 
Jacob. 

Deuteronomy 29:14 Neither with you only do I make this covenant 
and this oath, 

Deuteronomy 29:15 but with him that standeth here with us this day 
before Jehovah our God, and also with him that is not here with us 
this day 


Deuteronomy 29:16 (for ye know how we dwelt in the land of 
Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through 
which ye passed; 

Deuteronomy 29:17 and ye have seen their abominations, and their 
idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them); 

Deuteronomy 29:18 lest there should be among you man, or woman, 
or family, or tribe, whose heart turneth away this day from Jehovah 
our God, to go to serve the gods of those nations; lest there should be 
among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood; 

Deuteronomy 29:19 and it come to pass, when he heareth the words 
of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall have 
peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to destroy the 
moist with the dry. 

Deuteronomy 29:20 Jehovah will not pardon him, but then the anger 
of Jehovah and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the 
curse that is written in this book shall lie upon him, and Jehovah will 
blot out his name from under heaven. 

Deuteronomy 29:21 And Jehovah will set him apart unto evil out of 
all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that 
is written in this book of the law. 

Deuteronomy 29:22 And the generation to come, your children that 
shall rise up after you, and the foreigner that shall come from a far 
land, shall say, when they see the plagues of that land, and the 
sicknesses wherewith Jehovah hath made it sick; 

Deuteronomy 29:23 [and that] the whole land thereof is brimstone, 
and salt, [and] a burning, [that] it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any 
grass groweth therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, 
Admah and Zeboiim, which Jehovah overthrew in his anger, and in 
his wrath: 

Deuteronomy 29:24 even all the nations shall say, Wherefore hath 
Jehovah done thus unto this land? what meaneth the heat of this great 
anger? 

Deuteronomy 29:25 Then men shall say, Because they forsook the 
covenant of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, which he made with 
them when he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, 


Deuteronomy 29:26 and went and served other gods, and 
worshipped them, gods that they knew not, and that he had not given 
unto them: 

Deuteronomy 29:27 therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled 
against this land, to bring upon it all the curse that is written in this 
book; 

Deuteronomy 29:28 and Jehovah rooted them out of their land in 
anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into 
another land, as at this day. 

Deuteronomy 29:29 The secret things belong unto Jehovah our God; 
but the things that are revealed belong unto us and to our children for 
ever, that we may do all the words of this law. 

Deuteronomy 30 

Deuteronomy 30:1 And it shall come to pass, when all these things 
are come upon thee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set 
before thee, and thou shalt call them to mind among all the nations, 
whither Jehovah thy God hath driven thee, 

Deuteronomy 30:2 and shalt return unto Jehovah thy God, and shalt 
obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day, thou 
and thy children, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul; 

Deuteronomy 30:3 that then Jehovah thy God will turn thy captivity, 
and have compassion upon thee, and will return and gather thee from 
all the peoples, whither Jehovah thy God hath scattered thee. 

Deuteronomy 30:4 If [any of] thine outcasts be in the uttermost parts 
of heaven, from thence will Jehovah thy God gather thee, and from 
thence will he fetch thee: 

Deuteronomy 30:5 and Jehovah thy God will bring thee into the land 
which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will do 
thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers. 

Deuteronomy 30:6 And Jehovah thy God will circumcise thy heart, 
and the heart of thy seed, to love Jehovah thy God with all thy heart, 
and with all thy soul, that thou mayest live. 

Deuteronomy 30:7 And Jehovah thy God will put all these curses 
upon thine enemies, and on them that hate thee, that persecuted thee. 


Deuteronomy 30:8 And thou shalt return and obey the voice of 
Jehovah, and do all his commandments which I command thee this 
day. 

Deuteronomy 30:9 And Jehovah thy God will make thee plenteous 
in all the work of thy hand, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of 
thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground, for good: for Jehovah will 
again rejoice over thee for good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers; 

Deuteronomy 30:10 if thou shalt obey the voice of Jehovah thy God, 
to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this 
book of the law; if thou turn unto Jehovah thy God with all thy heart, 
and with all thy soul. 

Deuteronomy 30:11 For this commandment which I command thee 
this day, it is not too hard for thee, neither is it far off. 

Deuteronomy 30:12 It is not in heaven, that thou shouldest say, Who 
shall go up for us to heaven, and bring it unto us, and make us to hear 
it, that we may do it? 

Deuteronomy 30:13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that thou shouldest 
say, Who shall go over the sea for us, and bring it unto us, and make 
us to hear it, that we may do it? 

Deuteronomy 30:14 But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thy 
mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it. 

Deuteronomy 30:15 See, I have set before thee this day life and 
good, and death and evil; 

Deuteronomy 30:16 in that I command thee this day to love Jehovah 
thy God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his 
statutes and his ordinances, that thou mayest live and multiply, and 
that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in the land whither thou goest in 
to possess it. 

Deuteronomy 30:17 But if thy heart turn away, and thou wilt not 
hear, but shalt be drawn away, and worship other gods, and serve 
them; 

Deuteronomy 30:18 I denounce unto you this day, that ye shall 
surely perish; ye shall not prolong your days in the land, whither thou 
passest over the Jordan to go in to possess it. 


Deuteronomy 30:19 I call heaven and earth to witness against you 
this day, that I have set before thee life and death, the blessing and 
the curse: therefore choose life, that thou mayest live, thou and thy 
seed; 

Deuteronomy 30:20 to love Jehovah thy God, to obey his voice, and 
to cleave unto him; for he is thy life, and the length of thy days; that 
thou mayest dwell in the land which Jehovah sware unto thy fathers, 
to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them. 

Deuteronomy 31 

Deuteronomy 31:1 And Moses went and spake these words unto all 
Israel. 

Deuteronomy 31:2 And he said unto them, I am a hundred and 
twenty years old this day; I can no more go out and come in: and 
Jehovah hath said unto me, Thou shalt not go over this Jordan. 

Deuteronomy 31:3 Jehovah thy God, he will go over before thee; he 
will destroy these nations from before thee, and thou shalt dispossess 
them: [and] Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as Jehovah hath 
spoken. 

Deuteronomy 31:4 And Jehovah will do unto them as he did to 
Sihon and to Og, the kings of the Amorites, and unto their land; 
whom he destroyed. 

Deuteronomy 31:5 And Jehovah will deliver them up before you, 
and ye shall do unto them according unto all the commandment 
which I have commanded you. 

Deuteronomy 31:6 Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be 
affrighted at them: for Jehovah thy God, he it is that doth go with 
thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. 

Deuteronomy 31:7 And Moses called unto Joshua, and said unto 
him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and of good courage: for thou 
shalt go with this people into the land which Jehovah hath sworn unto 
their fathers to give them; and thou shalt cause them to inherit it. 

Deuteronomy 31:8 And Jehovah, he it is that doth go before thee; he 
will be with thee, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee: fear not, 
neither be dismayed. 


Deuteronomy 31:9 And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it unto 
the priests the sons of Levi, that bare the ark of the covenant of 
Jehovah, and unto all the elders of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 31:10 And Moses commanded them, saying, At the 
end of [every] seven years, in the set time of the year of release, in 
the feast of tabernacles, 

Deuteronomy 31:11 when all Israel is come to appear before 
Jehovah thy God in the place which he shall choose, thou shalt read 
this law before all Israel in their hearing. 

Deuteronomy 31:12 Assemble the people, the men and the women 
and the little ones, and thy sojourner that is within thy gates, that they 
may hear, and that they may learn, and fear Jehovah your God, and 
observe to do all the words of this law; 

Deuteronomy 31:13 and that their children, who have not known, 
may hear, and learn to fear Jehovah your God, as long as ye live in 
the land whither ye go over the Jordan to possess it. 

Deuteronomy 31:14 And Jehovah said unto Moses, Behold, thy days 
approach that thou must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in 
the tent of meeting, that I may give him a charge. And Moses and 
Joshua went, and presented themselves in the tent of meeting. 

Deuteronomy 31:15 And Jehovah appeared in the Tent in a pillar of 
cloud: and the pillar of cloud stood over the door of the Tent. 

Deuteronomy 31:16 And Jehovah said unto Moses, Behold, thou 
shalt sleep with thy fathers; and this people will rise up, and play the 
harlot after the strange gods of the land, whither they go to be among 
them, and will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have 
made with them. 

Deuteronomy 31:17 Then my anger shall be kindled against them in 
that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, 
and they shall be devoured, and many evils and troubles shall come 
upon them; so that they will say in that day, Are not these evils come 
upon us because our God is not among us? 

Deuteronomy 31:18 And I will surely hide my face in that day for 
all the evil which they shall have wrought, in that they are turned 
unto other gods. 


Deuteronomy 31:19 Now therefore write ye this song for you, and 
teach thou it the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this 
song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 31:20 For when I shall have brought them into the 
land which I sware unto their fathers, flowing with milk and honey, 
and they shall have eaten and filled themselves, and waxed fat; then 
will they turn unto other gods, and serve them, and despise me, and 
break my covenant. 

Deuteronomy 31:21 And it shall come to pass, when many evils and 
troubles are come upon them, that this song shall testify before them 
as a witness; for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their 
seed: for I know their imagination which they frame this day, before I 
have brought them into the land which I sware. 

Deuteronomy 31:22 So Moses wrote this song the same day, and 
taught it the children of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 31:23 And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, 
and said, Be strong and of good courage; for thou shalt bring the 
children of Israel into the land which I sware unto them: and I will be 
with thee. 

Deuteronomy 31:24 And it came to pass, when Moses had made an 
end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were 
finished, 

Deuteronomy 31:25 that Moses commanded the Levites, that bare 
the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, saying, 

Deuteronomy 31:26 Take this book of the law, and put it by the side 
of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, that it may be there 
for a witness against thee. 

Deuteronomy 31:27 For I know thy rebellion, and thy stiff neck: 
behold, while I am yet alive with you this day, ye have been 
rebellious against Jehovah; and how much more after my death? 

Deuteronomy 31:28 Assemble unto me all the elders of your tribes, 
and your officers, that I may speak these words in their ears, and call 
heaven and earth to witness against them. 

Deuteronomy 31:29 For I know that after my death ye will utterly 
corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have 
commanded you; and evil will befall you in the latter days; because 


ye will do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him 
to anger through the work of your hands. 

Deuteronomy 31:30 And Moses spake in the ears of all the assembly 
of Israel the words of this song, until they were finished. 

Deuteronomy 32 

Deuteronomy 32:1 Give ear, ye heavens, and I will speak; And let 
the earth hear the words of my mouth. 

Deuteronomy 32:2 My doctrine shall drop as the rain; My speech 
shall distil as the dew, As the small rain upon the tender grass, And as 
the showers upon the herb. 

Deuteronomy 32:3 For I will proclaim the name of Jehovah: Ascribe 
ye greatness unto our God. 

Deuteronomy 32:4 The Rock, his work is perfect; For all his ways 
are justice: A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, Just and right 
is he. 

Deuteronomy 32:5 They have dealt corruptly with him, [they are] 
not his children, [it is] their blemish; [They are] a perverse and 
crooked generation. 

Deuteronomy 32:6 Do ye thus requite Jehovah, O foolish people and 
unwise? Is not he thy father that hath bought thee? He hath made 
thee, and established thee. 

Deuteronomy 32:7 Remember the days of old, Consider the years of 
many generations: Ask thy father, and he will show thee; Thine 
elders, and they will tell thee. 

Deuteronomy 32:8 When the Most High gave to the nations their 
inheritance, When he separated the children of men, He set the 
bounds of the peoples According to the number of the children of 
Israel. 

Deuteronomy 32:9 For Jehovah's portion is his people; Jacob is the 
lot of his inheritance. 

Deuteronomy 32:10 He found him in a desert land, And in the waste 
howling wilderness; He compassed him about, he cared for him, He 
kept him as the apple of his eye. 


Deuteronomy 32:11 As an eagle that stirreth up her nest, That 
fluttereth over her young, He spread abroad his wings, he took them, 
He bare them on his pinions. 

Deuteronomy 32:12 Jehovah alone did lead him, And there was no 
foreign god with him. 

Deuteronomy 32:13 He made him ride on the high places of the 
earth, And he did eat the increase of the field; And he made him to 
suck honey out of the rock, And oil out of the flinty rock; 

Deuteronomy 32:14 Butter of the herd, and milk of the flock, With 
fat of lambs, And rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, With the 
finest of the wheat; And of the blood of the grape thou drankest wine. 

Deuteronomy 32:15 But Jeshurun waxed fat, and kicked: Thou art 
waxed fat, thou art grown thick, thou art become sleek; Then he 
forsook God who made him, And lightly esteemed the Rock of his 
salvation. 

Deuteronomy 32:16 They moved him to jealousy with strange 
[gods]; With abominations provoked they him to anger. 

Deuteronomy 32:17 They sacrificed unto demons, [which were] no 
God, To gods that they knew not, To new [gods] that came up of late, 
Which your fathers dreaded not. 

Deuteronomy 32:18 Of the Rock that begat thee thou art unmindful, 
And hast forgotten God that gave thee birth. 

Deuteronomy 32:19 And Jehovah saw [it], and abhorred [them], 
Because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters. 

Deuteronomy 32:20 And he said, I will hide my face from them, I 
will see what their end shall be: For they are a very perverse 
generation, Children in whom is no faithfulness. 

Deuteronomy 32:21 They have moved me to jealousy with that 
which is not God; They have provoked me to anger with their 
vanities: And I will move them to jealousy with those that are not a 
people; I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation. 

Deuteronomy 32:22 For a fire is kindled in mine anger, And burneth 
unto the lowest Sheol, And devoureth the earth with its increase, And 
setteth on fire the foundations of the mountains. 


Deuteronomy 32:23 I will heap evils upon them; I will spend mine 
arrows upon them: 

Deuteronomy 32:24 [They shall be] wasted with hunger, and 
devoured with burning heat And bitter destruction; And the teeth of 
beasts will I send upon them, With the poison of crawling things of 
the dust. 

Deuteronomy 32:25 Without shall the sword bereave, And in the 
chambers terror; [It shall destroy] both young man and virgin, The 
suckling with the man of gray hairs. 

Deuteronomy 32:26 I said, I would scatter them afar, I would make 
the remembrance of them to cease from among men; 

Deuteronomy 32:27 Were it not that I feared the provocation of the 
enemy, Lest their adversaries should judge amiss, Lest they should 
say, Our hand is exalted, And Jehovah hath not done all this. 

Deuteronomy 32:28 For they are a nation void of counsel, And there 
is no understanding in them. 

Deuteronomy 32:29 Oh that they were wise, that they understood 
this, That they would consider their latter end! 

Deuteronomy 32:30 How should one chase a thousand, And two put 
ten thousand to flight, Except their Rock had sold them, And Jehovah 
had delivered them up? 

Deuteronomy 32:31 For their rock is not as our Rock, Even our 
enemies themselves being judges. 

Deuteronomy 32:32 For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, And of 
the fields of Gomorrah: Their grapes are grapes of gall, Their clusters 
are bitter: 

Deuteronomy 32:33 Their wine is the poison of serpents, And the 
cruel venom of asps. 

Deuteronomy 32:34 Is not this laid up in store with me, Sealed up 
among my treasures? 

Deuteronomy 32:35 Vengeance is mine, and recompense, At the 
time when their foot shall slide: For the day of their calamity is at 
hand, And the things that are to come upon them shall make haste. 


Deuteronomy 32:36 For Jehovah will judge his people, And repent 
himself for his servants; When he seeth that [their] power is gone, 
And there is none [remaining], shut up or left at large. 

Deuteronomy 32:37 And he will say, Where are their gods, The rock 
in which they took refuge; 

Deuteronomy 32:38 Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, [And] 
drank the wine of their drink-offering? Let them rise up and help you, 
Let them be your protection. 

Deuteronomy 32:39 See now that I, even I, am he, And there is no 
god with me: I kill, and I make alive; I wound, and I heal; And there 
is none that can deliver out of my hand. 

Deuteronomy 32:40 For I lift up my hand to heaven, And say, As I 
live for ever, 

Deuteronomy 32:41 If I whet my glittering sword, And my hand 
take hold on judgment; I will render vengeance to mine adversaries, 
And will recompense them that hate me. 

Deuteronomy 32:42 I will make mine arrows drunk with blood, And 
my sword shall devour flesh; With the blood of the slain and the 
captives, From the head of the leaders of the enemy. 

Deuteronomy 32:43 Rejoice, O ye nations, [with] his people: For he 
will avenge the blood of his servants, And will render vengeance to 
his adversaries, And will make expiation for his land, for his people. 

Deuteronomy 32:44 And Moses came and spake all the words of 
this song in the ears of the people, he, and Hoshea the son of Nun. 

Deuteronomy 32:45 And Moses made an end of speaking all these 
words to all Israel; 

Deuteronomy 32:46 And he said unto them, Set your heart unto all 
the words which I testify unto you this day, which ye shall command 
your children to observe to do, [even] all the words of this law. 

Deuteronomy 32:47 For it is no vain thing for you; because it is your 
life, and through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, 
whither ye go over the Jordan to possess it. 


Deuteronomy 32:48 And Jehovah spake unto Moses that selfsame 
day, saying, 

Deuteronomy 32:49 Get thee up into this mountain of Abarim, unto 
mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against 
Jericho; and behold the land of Canaan, which I give unto the 
children of Israel for a possession; 

Deuteronomy 32:50 and die in the mount whither thou goest up, and 
be gathered unto thy people, as Aaron thy brother died in mount Hor, 
and was gathered unto his people: 

Deuteronomy 32:51 because ye trespassed against me in the midst of 
the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the 
wilderness of Zin; because ye sanctified me not in the midst of the 
children of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 32:52 For thou shalt see the land before thee; but thou 
shalt not go thither into the land which I give the children of Israel. 

Deuteronomy 33 

Deuteronomy 33:1 And this is the blessing, wherewith Moses the 
man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death. 

Deuteronomy 33:2 And he said, Jehovah came from Sinai, And rose 
from Seir unto them; He shined forth from mount Paran, And he 
came from the ten thousands of holy ones: At his right hand was a 
fiery law for them. 

Deuteronomy 33:3 Yea, he loveth the people; All his saints are in 
thy hand: And they sat down at thy feet; [Every one] shall receive of 
thy words. 

Deuteronomy 33:4 Moses commanded us a law, An inheritance for 
the assembly of Jacob. 

Deuteronomy 33:5 And he was king in Jeshurun, When the heads of 
the people were gathered, All the tribes of Israel together. 

Deuteronomy 33:6 Let Reuben live, and not die; Nor let his men be 
few. 


Deuteronomy 33:7 And this is [the blessing] of Judah: and he said, 
Hear, Jehovah, the voice of Judah, And bring him in unto his people. 
With his hands he contended for himself; And thou shalt be a help 
against his adversaries. 

Deuteronomy 33:8 And of Levi he said, Thy Thummim and thy 
Urim are with thy godly one, Whom thou didst prove at Massah, 
With whom thou didst strive at the waters of Meribah; 

Deuteronomy 33:9 Who said of his father, and of his mother, I have 
not seen him; Neither did he acknowledge his brethren, Nor knew he 
his own children: For they have observed thy word, And keep thy 
covenant. 

Deuteronomy 33:10 They shall teach Jacob thine ordinances, And 
Israel thy law: They shall put incense before thee, And whole burntoffering 
upon thine altar. 

Deuteronomy 33:11 Bless, Jehovah, his substance, And accept the 
work of his hands: Smite through the loins of them that rise up 
against him, And of them that hate him, that they rise not again. 

Deuteronomy 33:12 Of Benjamin he said, The beloved of Jehovah 
shall dwell in safety by him; He covereth him all the day long, And 
he dwelleth between his shoulders. 

Deuteronomy 33:13 And of Joseph he said, Blessed of Jehovah be 
his land, For the precious things of heaven, for the dew, And for the 
deep that coucheth beneath, 

Deuteronomy 33:14 And for the precious things of the fruits of the 
sun, And for the precious things of the growth of the moons, 

Deuteronomy 33:15 And for the chief things of the ancient 
mountains, And for the precious things of the everlasting hills, 

Deuteronomy 33:16 And for the precious things of the earth and the 
fulness thereof, And the good will of him that dwelt in the bush. Let 
[the blessing] come upon the head of Joseph, And upon the crown of 
the head of him that was separate from his brethren. 

Deuteronomy 33:17 The firstling of his herd, majesty is his; And his 
horns are the horns of the wild-ox: With them he shall push the 
peoples all of them, [even] the ends of the earth: And they are the ten 
thousands of Ephraim, And they are the thousands of Manasseh. 


Deuteronomy 33:18 And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in 
thy going out; And, Issachar, in thy tents. 

Deuteronomy 33:19 They shall call the peoples unto the mountain; 
There shall they offer sacrifices of righteousness: For they shall suck 
the abundance of the seas, And the hidden treasures of the sand. 

Deuteronomy 33:20 And of Gad he said, Blessed be he that 
enlargeth Gad: He dwelleth as a lioness, And teareth the arm, yea, the 
crown of the head. 

Deuteronomy 33:21 And he provided the first part for himself, For 
there was the lawgiver's portion reserved; And he came [with] the 
heads of the people; He executed the righteousness of Jehovah, And 
his ordinances with Israel. 

Deuteronomy 33:22 And of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp, That 
leapeth forth from Bashan. 

Deuteronomy 33:23 And of Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied 
with favor, And full with the blessing of Jehovah, Possess thou the 
west and the south. 

Deuteronomy 33:24 And of Asher he said, Blessed be Asher with 
children; Let him be acceptable unto his brethren, And let him dip his 
foot in oil. 

Deuteronomy 33:25 Thy bars shall be iron and brass; And as thy 
days, so shall thy strength be. 

Deuteronomy 33:26 There is none like unto God, O Jeshurun, Who 
rideth upon the heavens for thy help, And in his excellency on the 
skies. 

Deuteronomy 33:27 The eternal God is [thy] dwelling-place, And 
underneath are the everlasting arms. And he thrust out the enemy 
from before thee, And said, Destroy. 

Deuteronomy 33:28 And Israel dwelleth in safety, The fountain of 
Jacob alone, In a land of grain and new wine; Yea, his heavens drop 
down dew. 

Deuteronomy 33:29 Happy art thou, O Israel: Who is like unto thee, 
a people saved by Jehovah, The shield of thy help, And the sword of 
thy excellency! And thine enemies shall submit themselves unto thee; 
And thou shalt tread upon their high places. 


Deuteronomy 34 

Deuteronomy 34:1 And Moses went up from the plains of Moab 
unto mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is over against Jericho. 
And Jehovah showed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan, 

Deuteronomy 34:2 and all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim and 
Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, unto the hinder sea, 

Deuteronomy 34:3 and the South, and the Plain of the valley of 
Jericho the city of palm-trees, unto Zoar. 

Deuteronomy 34:4 And Jehovah said unto him, This is the land 
which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I 
will give it unto thy seed: I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, 
but thou shalt not go over thither. 

Deuteronomy 34:5 So Moses the servant of Jehovah died there in 
the land of Moab, according to the word of Jehovah. 

Deuteronomy 34:6 And he buried him in the valley in the land of 
Moab over against Beth-peor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre 
unto this day. 

Deuteronomy 34:7 And Moses was a hundred and twenty years old 
when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. 

Deuteronomy 34:8 And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the 
plains of Moab thirty days: so the days of weeping in the mourning 
for Moses were ended. 

Deuteronomy 34:9 And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit 
of wisdom; for Moses had laid his hands upon him: and the children 
of Israel hearkened unto him, and did as Jehovah commanded Moses. 

Deuteronomy 34:10 And there hath not arisen a prophet since in 
Israel like unto Moses, whom Jehovah knew face to face, 

Deuteronomy 34:11 in all the signs and the wonders, which Jehovah 
sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, and to all his 
servants, and to all his land, 

Deuteronomy 34:12 and in all the mighty hand, and in all the great 
terror, which Moses wrought in the sight of all Israel. 
