Genesis 








 

 


 




 








 



Genesis 18 

Genesis 18:1 And Jehovah appeared unto him by the oaks of Mamre, 
as he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day; 

Genesis 18:2 and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men 
stood over against him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them 
from the tent door, and bowed himself to the earth, 

Genesis 18:3 and said, My lord, if now I have found favor in thy 
sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 


Genesis 18:4 let now a little water be fetched, and wash your feet, 
and rest yourselves under the tree: 

Genesis 18:5 and I will fetch a morsel of bread, and strengthen ye 
your heart; after that ye shall pass on: forasmuch as ye are come to 
your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said. 

Genesis 18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and 
said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and 
make cakes. 

Genesis 18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetched a calf 
tender and good, and gave it unto the servant; and he hasted to dress 
it. 

Genesis 18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had 
dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, 
and they did eat. 

Genesis 18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And 
he said, Behold, in the tent. 

Genesis 18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee when the 
season cometh round; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And 
Sarah heard in the tent door, which was behind him. 

Genesis 18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, [and] well stricken 
in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. 

Genesis 18:12 And Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am 
waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? 

Genesis 18:13 And Jehovah said unto Abraham, Wherefore did 
Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, who am old? 

Genesis 18:14 Is anything too hard for Jehovah? At the set time I 
will return unto thee, when the season cometh round, and Sarah shall 
have a son. 

Genesis 18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was 
afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh. 

Genesis 18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward 
Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. 


Genesis 18:17 And Jehovah said, Shall I hide from Abraham that 
which I do; 

Genesis 18:18 seeing that Abraham had surely become a great and 
mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him? 

Genesis 18:19 For I have known him, to the end that he may 
command his children and his household after him, that they may 
keep the way of Jehovah, to do righteousness and justice; to the end 
that Jehovah may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of 
him. 

Genesis 18:20 And Jehovah said, Because the cry of Sodom and 
Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous; 

Genesis 18:21 I will go down now, and see whether they have done 
altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if 
not, I will know. 

Genesis 18:22 And the men turned from thence, and went toward 
Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before Jehovah. 

Genesis 18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou consume 
the righteous with the wicked? 

Genesis 18:24 Peradventure there are fifty righteous within the city: 
wilt thou consume and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that 
are therein? 

Genesis 18:25 That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay 
the righteous with the wicked, that so the righteous should be as the 
wicked; that be far from thee: shall not the Judge of all the earth do 
right? 

Genesis 18:26 And Jehovah said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous 
within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake. 

Genesis 18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have 
taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, who am but dust and ashes: 

Genesis 18:28 peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty 
righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, 
I will not destroy it, if I find there forty and five. 


Genesis 18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, 
Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not 
do it for the forty's sake. 

Genesis 18:30 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will 
speak: peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I 
will not do it, if I find thirty there. 

Genesis 18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to 
speak unto the Lord: peradventure there shall be twenty found there. 
And he said, I will not destroy it for the twenty's sake. 

Genesis 18:32 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will 
speak yet but this once: peradventure ten shall be found there. And he 
said, I will not destroy it for the ten's sake. 

Genesis 18:33 And Jehovah went his way, as soon as he had left off 
communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place. 

Genesis 19 

Genesis 19:1 And the two angels came to Sodom at even; and Lot sat 
in the gate of Sodom: and Lot saw them, and rose up to meet them; 
and he bowed himself with his face to the earth; 

Genesis 19:2 and he said, Behold now, my lords, turn aside, I pray 
you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, 
and ye shall rise up early, and go on your way. And they said, Nay; 
but we will abide in the street all night. 

Genesis 19:3 And he urged them greatly; and they turned in unto 
him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did 
bake unleavened bread, and they did eat. 

Genesis 19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, [even] 
the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both young and old, 
all the people from every quarter; 

Genesis 19:5 and they called unto Lot, and said unto him, Where are 
the men that came in to thee this night? bring them out unto us, that 
we may know them. 

Genesis 19:6 And Lot went out unto them to the door, and shut the 
door after him. 


Genesis 19:7 And he said, I pray you, my brethren, do not so 
wickedly. 

Genesis 19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters that have not known 
man; let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them 
as is good in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing, forasmuch 
as they are come under the shadow of my roof. 

Genesis 19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said, This one 
fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we 
deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the 
man, even Lot, and drew near to break the door. 

Genesis 19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and brought Lot into 
the house to them, and shut to the door. 

Genesis 19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the 
house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied 
themselves to find the door. 

Genesis 19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any 
besides? son-in-law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and 
whomsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of the place: 

Genesis 19:13 for we will destroy this place, because the cry of them 
is waxed great before Jehovah: and Jehovah hath sent us to destroy it. 

Genesis 19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons-in-law, 
who married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for 
Jehovah will destroy the city. But he seemed unto his sons-in-law as 
one that mocked. 

Genesis 19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened 
Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters that are here, 
lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city. 

Genesis 19:16 But he lingered; and the men laid hold upon his hand, 
and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two 
daughters, Jehovah being merciful unto him; and they brought him 
forth, and set him without the city. 

Genesis 19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them 
forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, 
neither stay thou in all the Plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be 
consumed. 


Genesis 19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my lord: 

Genesis 19:19 behold now, thy servant hath found favor in thy sight, 
and thou hast magnified thy lovingkindness, which thou hast showed 
unto me in saving my life; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest 
evil overtake me, and I die: 

Genesis 19:20 behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a 
little one. Oh let me escape thither (is it not a little one?), and my soul 
shall live. 

Genesis 19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee 
concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow the city of which 
thou hast spoken. 

Genesis 19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till 
thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar. 

Genesis 19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot came unto 
Zoar. 

Genesis 19:24 Then Jehovah rained upon Sodom and upon 
Gomorrah brimstone and fire from Jehovah out of heaven; 

Genesis 19:25 and he overthrew those cities, and all the Plain, and all 
the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground. 

Genesis 19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she 
became a pillar of salt. 

Genesis 19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place 
where he had stood before Jehovah: 

Genesis 19:28 and he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and 
toward all the land of the Plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the 
land went up as the smoke of a furnace. 

Genesis 19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of 
the Plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the 
midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot 
dwelt. 

Genesis 19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the 
mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in 
Zoar: and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters. 


Genesis 19:31 And the first-born said unto the younger, Our father is 
old, and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the 
manner of all the earth: 

Genesis 19:32 come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will 
lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father. 

Genesis 19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and 
the first-born went in, and lay with her father; and he knew not when 
she lay down, nor when she arose. 

Genesis 19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the first-born 
said unto the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us 
make him drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, 
that we may preserve seed of our father. 

Genesis 19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: 
and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he knew not when she 
lay down, nor when she arose. 

Genesis 19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by 
their father. 

Genesis 19:37 And the first-born bare a son, and called his name 
Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day. 

Genesis 19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his 
name Ben-ammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon 
unto this day. 

Genesis 20 

Genesis 20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the land 
of the South, and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur. And he sojourned 
in Gerar. 

Genesis 20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. 
And Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah. 

Genesis 20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, 
and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, because of the 
woman whom thou hast taken. For she is a man's wife. 

Genesis 20:4 Now Abimelech had not come near her. And he said, 
Lord, wilt thou slay even a righteous nation? 


Genesis 20:5 Said he not himself unto me, She is my sister? And she, 
even she herself said, He is my brother. In the integrity of my heart 
and the innocency of my hands have I done this. 

Genesis 20:6 And God said unto him in the dream, Yea, I know that 
in the integrity of thy heart thou has done this, and I also withheld 
thee from sinning against me. Therefore suffered I thee not to touch 
her. 

Genesis 20:7 Now therefore restore the man's wife. For he is a 
prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live. And if thou 
restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that 
are thine. 

Genesis 20:8 And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called 
all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. And the men 
were sore afraid. 

Genesis 20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, 
What hast thou done unto us? And wherein have I sinned against 
thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? 
Thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done. 

Genesis 20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest 
thou, that thou hast done this thing? 

Genesis 20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear 
of God is not in this place. And they will slay me for my wife's sake. 

Genesis 20:12 And moreover she is indeed my sister, the daughter of 
my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my 
wife: 

Genesis 20:13 and it came to pass, when God caused me to wander 
from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness 
which thou shalt show unto me. At every place whither we shall 
come, say of me, He is my brother. 

Genesis 20:14 And Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and men-
servants and women-servants, and gave them unto Abraham, and 
restored him Sarah his wife. 

Genesis 20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee. 
Dwell where it pleaseth thee. 


Genesis 20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy 
brother a thousand pieces of silver. Behold, it is for thee a covering of 
the eyes to all that are with thee. And in respect of all thou art 
righted. 

Genesis 20:17 And Abraham prayed unto God. And God healed 
Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants. And they bare 
children. 

Genesis 20:18 For Jehovah had fast closed up all the wombs of the 
house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham's wife. 

Genesis 21 

Genesis 21:1 And Jehovah visited Sarah as he had said, and Jehovah 
did unto Sarah as he had spoken. 

Genesis 21:2 And Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his 
old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him. 

Genesis 21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born 
unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac. 

Genesis 21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was 
eight days old, as God had commanded him. 

Genesis 21:5 And Abraham was a hundred years old, when his son 
Isaac was born unto him. 

Genesis 21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh. Every one 
that heareth will laugh with me. 

Genesis 21:7 And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that 
Sarah should give children suck? For I have borne him a son in his 
old age. 

Genesis 21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned. And Abraham 
made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. 

Genesis 21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom 
she had borne unto Abraham, mocking. 

Genesis 21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this 
handmaid and her son. For the son of this handmaid shall not be heir 
with my son, even with Isaac. 


Genesis 21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight 
on account of his son. 

Genesis 21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in 
thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy handmaid. In all that 
Sarah saith unto thee, hearken unto her voice. For in Isaac shall thy 
seed be called. 

Genesis 21:13 And also of the son of the handmaid will I make a 
nation, because he is thy seed. 

Genesis 21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took 
bread and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her 
shoulder, and [gave her] the child, and sent her away. And she 
departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba. 

Genesis 21:15 And the water in the bottle was spent, and she cast the 
child under one of the shrubs. 

Genesis 21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a 
good way off, as it were a bowshot. For she said, Let me not look 
upon the death of the child. And she sat over against him, and lifted 
up her voice, and wept. 

Genesis 21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad. And the angel of 
God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth 
thee, Hagar? Fear not. For God hath heard the voice of the lad where 
he is. 

Genesis 21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thy hand. For I 
will make him a great nation. 

Genesis 21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of 
water. And she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the 
lad drink. 

Genesis 21:20 And God was with the lad, and he grew. And he dwelt 
in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer. 

Genesis 21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran. And his 
mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt. 

Genesis 21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and 
Phicol the captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is 
with thee in all that thou doest. 


Genesis 21:23 Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou 
wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son. 
But according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt 
do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned. 

Genesis 21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear. 

Genesis 21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of the 
well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away. 

Genesis 21:26 And Abimelech said, I know not who hath done this 
thing. Neither didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to-day. 

Genesis 21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them 
unto Abimelech. And they two made a covenant. 

Genesis 21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by 
themselves. 

Genesis 21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these 
seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves? 

Genesis 21:30 And he said, These seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of 
my hand, that it may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this 
well. 

Genesis 21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beer-sheba. Because 
there they sware both of them. 

Genesis 21:32 So they made a covenant at Beer-sheba. And 
Abimelech rose up, and Phicol the captain of his host, and they 
returned into the land of the Philistines. 

Genesis 21:33 And [Abraham] planted a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba, 
and called there on the name of Jehovah, the Everlasting God. 

Genesis 21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines 
many days. 


Genesis 22 

Genesis 22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did 
prove Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham. And he said, Here am 

I. 
Genesis 22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, whom 
thou lovest, even Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah. And 
offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which 
I will tell thee of. 

Genesis 22:3 And Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled 
his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. 
And he clave the wood for the burnt-offering, and rose up, and went 
unto the place of which God had told him. 

Genesis 22:4 On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw 
the place afar off. 

Genesis 22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here 
with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder; and we will worship, 
and come again to you. 

Genesis 22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt-offering, and 
laid it upon Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the 
knife. And they went both of them together. 

Genesis 22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My 
father. And he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire 
and the wood. But where is the lamb for a burnt-offering? 

Genesis 22:8 And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb 
for a burnt-offering, my son. So they went both of them together. 

Genesis 22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of. 
And Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and 
bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood. 

Genesis 22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the 
knife to slay his son. 

Genesis 22:11 And the angel of Jehovah called unto him out of 
heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here I am. 


Genesis 22:12 And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do 
thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing 
thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. 

Genesis 22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and 
behold, behind [him] a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And 
Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burntoffering 
in the stead of his son. 

Genesis 22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh. 
As it is said to this day, In the mount of Jehovah it shall be 
provided. 

Genesis 22:15 And the angel of Jehovah called unto Abraham a 
second time out of heaven, 

Genesis 22:16 and said, By myself have I sworn, saith Jehovah, 
because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine 
only son, 

Genesis 22:17 that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I 
will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand 
which is upon the seashore. And thy seed shall possess the gate of his 
enemies. 

Genesis 22:18 And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be 
blessed. Because thou hast obeyed my voice. 

Genesis 22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they 
rose up and went together to Beer-sheba. And Abraham dwelt at 
Beer-sheba. 

Genesis 22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told 
Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also hath borne children unto 
they brother Nahor. 

Genesis 22:21 Uz his first-born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the 
father of Aram. 

Genesis 22:22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and 
Bethuel. 

Genesis 22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah. These eight did Milcah 
bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother. 


Genesis 22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she 
also bare Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah. 

Genesis 23 

Genesis 23:1 And the life of Sarah was a hundred and seven and 
twenty years. These were the years of the life of Sarah. 

Genesis 23:2 And Sarah died in Kiriath-arba (the same is Hebron), in 
the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to 
weep for her. 

Genesis 23:3 And Abraham rose up from before his dead, and spake 
unto the children of Heth, saying, 

Genesis 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you. Give me a 
possession of a burying-place with you, that I may bury my dead out 
of my sight. 

Genesis 23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying 
unto him, 

Genesis 23:6 Hear us, my lord. Thou art a prince of God among us. 
In the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead. None of us shall 
withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead. 

Genesis 23:7 And Abraham rose up, and bowed himself to the people 
of the land, even to the children of Heth. 

Genesis 23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your 
mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and entreat 
for me to Ephron the son of Zohar, 

Genesis 23:9 that he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he 
hath, which is in the end of his field. For the full price let him give it 
to me in the midst of you for a possession of a burying-place. 

Genesis 23:10 Now Ephron was sitting in the midst of the children of 
Heth. And Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of 
the children of Heth, even of all that went in at the gate of his city, 
saying, 

Genesis 23:11 Nay, my lord, hear me. The field give I thee, and the 
cave that is therein, I give it thee. In the presence of the children of 
my people give I it thee. Bury thy dead. 


Genesis 23:12 And Abraham bowed himself down before the people 
of the land. 

Genesis 23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the 
people of the land, saying, But if thou wilt, I pray thee, hear me. I 
will give the price of the field. Take it of me, and I will bury my dead 
there. 

Genesis 23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 

Genesis 23:15 My lord, hearken unto me. A piece of land worth four 
hundred shekels of silver, what is that betwixt me and thee? Bury 
therefore thy dead. 

Genesis 23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron. And Abraham 
weighed to Ephron the silver which he had named in the audience of 
the children of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current [money] 
with the merchant. 

Genesis 23:17 So the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah, 
which was before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, 
and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all the border 
thereof round about, were made sure 

Genesis 23:18 unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the 
children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city. 

Genesis 23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the 
cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre (the same is Hebron), 
in the land of Canaan. 

Genesis 23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made 
sure unto Abraham for a possession of a burying-place by the 
children of Heth. 

Genesis 24 

Genesis 24:1 And Abraham was old, [and] well stricken in age. And 
Jehovah had blessed Abraham in all things. 

Genesis 24:2 And Abraham said unto his servant, the elder of his 
house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under 
my thigh. 


Genesis 24:3 And I will make thee swear by Jehovah, the God of 
heaven and the God of the earth, that thou wilt not take a wife for my 
son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell. 

Genesis 24:4 But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, 
and take a wife for my son Isaac. 

Genesis 24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the 
woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land. Must I needs 
bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest? 

Genesis 24:6 And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou 
bring not my son thither again. 

Genesis 24:7 Jehovah, the God of heaven, who took me from my 
father's house, and from the land of my nativity, and who spake unto 
me, and who sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this 
land. He will send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife for 
my son from thence. 

Genesis 24:8 And if the woman be not willing to follow thee, then 
thou shalt be clear from this my oath. Only thou shalt not bring my 
son thither again. 

Genesis 24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of 
Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning this matter. 

Genesis 24:10 And the servant took ten camels, of the camels of his 
master, and departed, having all goodly things of his master's in his 
hand. And he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of 
Nahor. 

Genesis 24:11 And he made the camels to kneel down without the 
city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time that women 
go out to draw water. 

Genesis 24:12 And he said, O Jehovah, the God of my master 
Abraham, send me, I pray thee, good speed this day, and show 
kindness unto my master Abraham. 

Genesis 24:13 Behold, I am standing by the fountain of water. And 
the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. 

Genesis 24:14 And let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I 
shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink. And she 
shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also. Let the same 


be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac. And thereby 
shall I know that thou hast showed kindness unto my master. 

Genesis 24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, 
that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel the son of 
Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon 
her shoulder. 

Genesis 24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, 
neither had any man known her. And she went down to the fountain, 
and filled her pitcher, and came up. 

Genesis 24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Give me to 
drink, I pray thee, a little water from thy pitcher. 

Genesis 24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord. And she hasted, and let 
down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink. 

Genesis 24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I 
will draw for thy camels also, until they have done drinking. 

Genesis 24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the 
trough, and ran again unto the well to draw, and drew for all his 
camels. 

Genesis 24:21 And the man looked stedfastly on her, holding his 
peace, to know whether Jehovah had made his journey prosperous or 
not. 

Genesis 24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, 
that the man took a golden ring of half a shekel weight, and two 
bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold, 

Genesis 24:23 and said, Whose daughter art thou? Tell me, I pray 
thee. Is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in? 

Genesis 24:24 And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel 
the son of Milcah, whom she bare unto Nahor. 

Genesis 24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and 
provender enough, and room to lodge in. 

Genesis 24:26 And the man bowed his head, and worshipped 
Jehovah. 


Genesis 24:27 And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of my 
master Abraham, who hath not forsaken his lovingkindness and his 
truth toward my master. As for me, Jehovah hath led me in the way to 
the house of my master's brethren. 

Genesis 24:28 And the damsel ran, and told her mother's house 
according to these words. 

Genesis 24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: 
and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the fountain. 

Genesis 24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the ring, and the 
bracelets upon his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of 
Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me. That he 
came unto the man. And, behold, he was standing by the camels at 
the fountain. 

Genesis 24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of Jehovah. 
Wherefore standest thou without? For I have prepared the house, and 
room for the camels. 

Genesis 24:32 And the man came into the house, and he ungirded the 
camels. And he gave straw and provender for the camels, and water 
to wash his feet and the feet of the men that were with him. 

Genesis 24:33 And there was set food before him to eat. But he said, 
I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on. 

Genesis 24:34 And he said, I am Abraham's servant. 

Genesis 24:35 And Jehovah hath blessed my master greatly. And he 
is become great. And he hath given him flocks and herds, and silver 
and gold, and men-servants and maid-servants, and camels and asses. 

Genesis 24:36 And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master 
when she was old. And unto him hath he given all that he hath. 

Genesis 24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt 
not take a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in 
whose land I dwell. 

Genesis 24:38 But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my 
kindred, and take a wife for my son. 

Genesis 24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman 
will not follow me. 


Genesis 24:40 And he said unto me, Jehovah, before whom I walk, 
will send his angel with thee, and prosper thy way. And thou shalt 
take a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father's house. 

Genesis 24:41 Then shalt thou be clear from my oath, when thou 
comest to my kindred. And if they give her not to thee, thou shalt be 
clear from my oath. 

Genesis 24:42 And I came this day unto the fountain, and said, O 
Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my 
way which I go. 

Genesis 24:43 Behold, I am standing by the fountain of water. And 
let it come to pass, that the maiden that cometh forth to draw, to 
whom I shall say, Give me, I pray thee, a little water from thy pitcher 
to drink. 

Genesis 24:44 And she shall say to me, Both drink thou, and I will 
also draw for thy camels. Let the same be the woman whom Jehovah 
hath appointed for my master's son. 

Genesis 24:45 And before I had done speaking in my heart, behold, 
Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder. And she went 
down unto the fountain, and drew. And I said unto her, Let me drink, 
I pray thee. 

Genesis 24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from 
her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also. 
So I drank, and she made the camels drink also. 

Genesis 24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? 
And she said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah 
bare unto him. And I put the ring upon her nose, and the bracelets 
upon her hands. 

Genesis 24:48 And I bowed my head, and worshipped Jehovah, and 
blessed Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me in 
the right way to take my master's brother's daughter for his son. 

Genesis 24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my 
master, tell me. And if not, tell me. That I may turn to the right hand, 
or to the left. 

Genesis 24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing 
proceedeth from Jehovah. We cannot speak unto thee bad or good. 


Genesis 24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and 
let her be thy master's son's wife, as Jehovah hath spoken. 

Genesis 24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant 
heard their words, he bowed himself down to the earth unto Jehovah. 

Genesis 24:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and 
jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah. He gave also 
to her brother and to her mother precious things. 

Genesis 24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were 
with him, and tarried all night. And they rose up in the morning, and 
he said, Send me away unto my master. 

Genesis 24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel 
abide with us [a few] days, at the least ten. After that she shall go. 

Genesis 24:56 And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing 
Jehovah hath prospered my way. Send me away that I may go to my 
master. 

Genesis 24:57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and inquire at 
her mouth. 

Genesis 24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou 
go with this man? And she said, I will go. 

Genesis 24:59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her 
nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men. 

Genesis 24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Our 
sister, be thou [the mother] of thousands of ten thousands, and let thy 
seed possess the gate of those that hate them. 

Genesis 24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode 
upon the camels, and followed the man. And the servant took 
Rebekah, and went his way. 

Genesis 24:62 And Isaac came from the way of Beer-lahai-roi. For 
he dwelt in the land of the South. 

Genesis 24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the 
eventide. And he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, there were 
camels coming. 


Genesis 24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw 
Isaac, she alighted from the camel. 

Genesis 24:65 And she said unto the servant, What man is this that 
walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant said, It is my master. 
And she took her veil, and covered herself. 

Genesis 24:66 And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had 
done. 

Genesis 24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, 
and took Rebekah, and she became his wife. And he loved her. And 
Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. 

Genesis 25 

Genesis 25:1 And Abraham took another wife, and her name was 
Keturah. 

Genesis 25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, 
and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 

Genesis 25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of 
Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 

Genesis 25:4 And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and 
Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of 
Keturah. 

Genesis 25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. 

Genesis 25:6 But unto the sons of the concubines, that Abraham had, 
Abraham gave gifts. And he sent them away from Isaac his son, 
while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. 

Genesis 25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life 
which he lived, a hundred threescore and fifteen years. 

Genesis 25:8 And Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old 
age, an old man, and full [of years], and was gathered to his people. 

Genesis 25:9 And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave 
of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, 
which is before Mamre. 


Genesis 25:10 The field which Abraham purchased of the children of 
Heth. There was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife. 

Genesis 25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that 
God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi. 

Genesis 25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's 
son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto 
Abraham. 

Genesis 25:13 And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by 
their names, according to their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, 
Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 

Genesis 25:14 and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 

Genesis 25:15 Hadad, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 

Genesis 25:16 These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their 
names, by their villages, and by their encampments. Twelve princes 
according to their nations. 

Genesis 25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a 
hundred and thirty and seven years. And he gave up the ghost and 
died, and was gathered unto his people. 

Genesis 25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur that is before 
Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria. He abode over against all his 
brethren. 

Genesis 25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. 
Abraham begat Isaac. 

Genesis 25:20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, 
the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan-aram, the sister of 
Laban the Syrian, to be his wife. 

Genesis 25:21 And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife, because she 
was barren. And Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife 
conceived. 

Genesis 25:22 And the children struggled together within her. And 
she said, If it be so, wherefore do I live? And she went to inquire of 
Jehovah. 


Genesis 25:23 And Jehovah said unto her, Two nations are in thy 
womb, And two peoples shall be separated from thy bowels. And the 
one people shall be stronger than the other people. And the elder shall 
serve the younger. 

Genesis 25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, 
behold, there were twins in her womb. 

Genesis 25:25 And the first came forth red, all over like a hairy 
garment. And they called his name Esau. 

Genesis 25:26 And after that came forth his brother, and his hand 
had hold on Esau's heel. And his name was called Jacob. And Isaac 
was threescore years old when she bare them. 

Genesis 25:27 And the boys grew. And Esau was a skilful hunter, a 
man of the field. And Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents. 

Genesis 25:28 Now Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his 
venison. And Rebekah loved Jacob. 

Genesis 25:29 And Jacob boiled pottage. And Esau came in from the 
field, and he was faint. 

Genesis 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with 
that same red [pottage]. For I am faint. Therefore was his name called 
Edom. 

Genesis 25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me first thy birthright. 

Genesis 25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am about to die. And what 
profit shall the birthright do to me? 

Genesis 25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to me first. And he sware unto 
him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. 

Genesis 25:34 And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils. 
And he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way. So Esau 
despised his birthright. 


Genesis 26 

Genesis 26:1 And there was a famine in the land, besides the first 
famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto 
Abimelech king of the Philistines, unto Gerar. 

Genesis 26:2 And Jehovah appeared unto him, and said, Go not 
down into Egypt. Dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of. 

Genesis 26:3 Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will 
bless thee. For unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these 
lands, and I will establish the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy 
father. 

Genesis 26:4 And I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and 
will give unto thy seed all these lands. And in thy seed shall all the 
nations of the earth be blessed. 

Genesis 26:5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my 
charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. 

Genesis 26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar. 

Genesis 26:7 And the men of the place asked him of his wife. And he 
said, She is my sister. For he feared to say, My wife. Lest, [said he], 
the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah. Because she was 
fair to look upon. 

Genesis 26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long 
time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, 
and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife. 

Genesis 26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a 
surety she is thy wife. And how saidst thou, She is my sister? And 
Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die because of her. 

Genesis 26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto 
us? One of the people might easily have lain with thy wife, and thou 
wouldest have brought guiltiness upon us. 

Genesis 26:11 And Abimelech charged all the people, saying, He 
that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. 

Genesis 26:12 And Isaac sowed in that land, and found in the same 
year a hundredfold. And Jehovah blessed him. 


Genesis 26:13 And the man waxed great, and grew more and more 
until he became very great. 

Genesis 26:14 And he had possessions of flocks, and possessions of 
herds, and a great household. And the Philistines envied him. 

Genesis 26:15 Now all the wells which his father's servants had 
digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped, 
and filled with earth. 

Genesis 26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us. For thou 
art much mightier than we. 

Genesis 26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and encamped in the 
valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. 

Genesis 26:18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they 
had digged in the days of Abraham his father. For the Philistines had 
stopped them after the death of Abraham. And he called their names 
after the names by which his father had called them. 

Genesis 26:19 And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found 
there a well of springing water. 

Genesis 26:20 And the herdsmen of Gerar strove with Isaac's 
herdsmen, saying, The water is ours. And he called the name of the 
well Esek, because they contended with him. 

Genesis 26:21 And they digged another well, and they strove for that 
also. And he called the name of it Sitnah. 

Genesis 26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another 
well. And for that they strove not. And he called the name of it 
Rehoboth. And he said, For now Jehovah hath made room for us, and 
we shall be fruitful in the land. 

Genesis 26:23 And he went up from thence to Beer-sheba. 

Genesis 26:24 And Jehovah appeared unto him the same night, and 
said, I am the God of Abraham thy father. Fear not, for I am with 
thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant 
Abraham's sake. 


Genesis 26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the 
name of Jehovah, and pitched his tent there. And there Isaac's 
servants digged a well. 

Genesis 26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and 
Ahuzzath his friend, and Phicol the captain of his host. 

Genesis 26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore are ye come 
unto me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you? 

Genesis 26:28 And they said, We saw plainly that Jehovah was with 
thee. And we said, Let there now be an oath betwixt us, even betwixt 
us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee, 

Genesis 26:29 that thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched 
thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent 
thee away in peace. Thou art now the blessed of Jehovah. 

Genesis 26:30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink. 

Genesis 26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware 
one to another. And Isaac sent them away, and they departed from 
him in peace. 

Genesis 26:32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants 
came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and 
said unto him, We have found water. 

Genesis 26:33 And he called it Shibah. Therefore the name of the 
city is Beer-sheba unto this day. 

Genesis 26:34 And when Esau was forty years old he took to wife 
Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of 
Elon the Hittite. 

Genesis 26:35 And they were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to 
Rebekah. 


Genesis 27 

Genesis 27:1 And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his 
eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his elder son, 
and said unto him, My son. And he said unto him, Here am I. 

Genesis 27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day 
of my death. 

Genesis 27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy 
quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me venison. 

Genesis 27:4 And make me savory food, such as I love, and bring it 
to me, that I may eat. That my soul may bless thee before I die. 

Genesis 27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. 
And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it. 

Genesis 27:6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, 
Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 

Genesis 27:7 Bring me venison, and make me savory food, that I 
may eat, and bless thee before Jehovah before my death. 

Genesis 27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to 
that which I command thee. 

Genesis 27:9 Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two 
good kids of the goats. And I will make them savory food for thy 
father, such as he loveth. 

Genesis 27:10 And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, 
so that he may bless thee before his death. 

Genesis 27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau 
my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. 

Genesis 27:12 My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem 
to him as a deceiver. And I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a 
blessing. 

Genesis 27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, 
my son. Only obey my voice, and go fetch me them. 


Genesis 27:14 And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his 
mother. And his mother made savory food, such as his father loved. 

Genesis 27:15 And Rebekah took the goodly garments of Esau her 
elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob 
her younger son. 

Genesis 27:16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his 
hands, and upon the smooth of his neck. 

Genesis 27:17 And she gave the savory food and the bread, which 
she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob. 

Genesis 27:18 And he came unto his father, and said, My father. And 
he said, Here am I. Who art thou, my son? 

Genesis 27:19 And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy firstborn; 
I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit 
and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me. 

Genesis 27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast 
found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because Jehovah thy God 
sent me good speed. 

Genesis 27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, 
that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or 
not. 

Genesis 27:22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father. And he felt 
him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands 
of Esau. 

Genesis 27:23 And he discerned him not, because his hands were 
hairy, as his brother Esau's hands. So he blessed him. 

Genesis 27:24 And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, 
I am. 

Genesis 27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my 
son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to 
him, and he did eat. And he brought him wine, and he drank. 

Genesis 27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, 
and kiss me, my son. 


Genesis 27:27 And he came near, and kissed him. And he smelled 
the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of 
my son Is as the smell of a field which Jehovah hath blessed. 

Genesis 27:28 And God give thee of the dew of heaven, And of the 
fatness of the earth, And plenty of grain and new wine. 

Genesis 27:29 Let peoples serve thee, And nations bow down to 
thee. Be lord over thy brethren, And let thy mother's sons bow down 
to thee. Cursed be every one that curseth thee, And blessed be every 
one that blesseth thee. 

Genesis 27:30 And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end 
of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the 
presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his 
hunting. 

Genesis 27:31 And he also made savory food, and brought it unto his 
father. And he said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his 
son's venison, that thy soul may bless me. 

Genesis 27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? 
And he said, I am thy son, thy first-born, Esau. 

Genesis 27:33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who 
then is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten 
of all before thou camest, and have blessed him? Yea, [and] he shall 
be blessed. 

Genesis 27:34 When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried 
with an exceeding great and bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless 
me, even me also, O my father. 

Genesis 27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with guile, and hath 
taken away thy blessing. 

Genesis 27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly name Jacob? for he hath 
supplanted me these two time. He took away my birthright. And, 
behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou 
not reserved a blessing for me? 

Genesis 27:37 And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I 
have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for 
servants. And with grain and new wine have I sustained him. And 
what then shall I do for thee, my son? 


Genesis 27:38 And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one 
blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau 
lifted up his voice, and wept. 

Genesis 27:39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, 
Behold, of the fatness of the earth shall be thy dwelling, And of the 
dew of heaven from above. 

Genesis 27:40 And by thy sword shalt thou live, and thou shalt serve 
thy brother. And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt break loose, 
That thou shalt shake his yoke from off thy neck. 

Genesis 27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing 
wherewith his father blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The 
days of mourning for my father are at hand. Then will I slay my 
brother Jacob. 

Genesis 27:42 And the words of Esau her elder son were told to 
Rebekah. And she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said 
unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort 
himself, [purposing] to kill thee. 

Genesis 27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice. And arise, 
flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran. 

Genesis 27:44 And tarry with him a few days, until thy brother's fury 
turn away. 

Genesis 27:45 Until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he 
forget that which thou hast done to him. Then I will send, and fetch 
thee from thence. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day? 

Genesis 27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life 
because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob take a wife of the 
daughters of Heth, such as these, of the daughters of the land, what 
good shall my life do me? 


Genesis 28 

Genesis 28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged 
him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of 
Canaan. 

Genesis 28:2 Arise, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel thy 
mother's father. And take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of 
Laban thy mother's brother. 

Genesis 28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, 
and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a company of peoples. 

Genesis 28:4 And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to 
thy seed with thee. That thou mayest inherit the land of thy 
sojournings, which God gave unto Abraham. 

Genesis 28:5 And Isaac sent away Jacob. And he went to Paddanaram 
unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, 
Jacob's and Esau's mother. 

Genesis 28:6 Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent 
him away to Paddan-aram, to take him a wife from thence. And that 
as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a 
wife of the daughters of Canaan. 

Genesis 28:7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and 
was gone to Paddan-aram. 

Genesis 28:8 And Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan pleased not 
Isaac his father. 

Genesis 28:9 And Esau went unto Ishmael, and took, besides the 
wives that he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, 
the sister of Nebaioth, to be his wife. 

Genesis 28:10 And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba, and went 
toward Haran. 

Genesis 28:11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there 
all night, because the sun was set. And he took one of the stones of 
the place, and put it under his head, and lay down in that place to 
sleep. 


Genesis 28:12 And he dreamed. And behold, a ladder set up on the 
earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of 
God ascending and descending on it. 

Genesis 28:13 And, behold, Jehovah stood above it, and said, I am 
Jehovah, the God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac. The 
land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. 

Genesis 28:14 And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou 
shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and 
to the south. And in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the 
earth be blessed. 

Genesis 28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee, 
whithersoever thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land. For 
I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to 
thee of. 

Genesis 28:16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, 
Surely Jehovah is in this place. And I knew it not. 

Genesis 28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this 
place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of 
heaven. 

Genesis 28:18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the 
stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and 
poured oil upon the top of it. 

Genesis 28:19 And he called the name of that place Beth-el. But the 
name of the city was Luz at the first. 

Genesis 28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with 
me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to 
eat, and raiment to put on, 

Genesis 28:21 so that I come again to my father's house in peace, and 
Jehovah will be my God, 

Genesis 28:22 then this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall 
be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give 
the tenth unto thee. 


Genesis 29 

Genesis 29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came to the land 
of the children of the east. 

Genesis 29:2 And he looked, and behold, a well in the field, and, lo, 
three flocks of sheep lying there by it. For out of that well they 
watered the flocks. And the stone upon the well's mouth was great. 

Genesis 29:3 And thither were all the flocks gathered. And they 
rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put 
the stone again upon the well's mouth in its place. 

Genesis 29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence are 
ye? And they said, Of Haran are we. 

Genesis 29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of 
Nahor? And they said, We know him. 

Genesis 29:6 And he said unto them, Is it well with him? And they 
said, It is well. And, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the 
sheep. 

Genesis 29:7 And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that 
the cattle should be gathered together. Water ye the sheep, and go and 
feed them. 

Genesis 29:8 And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be 
gathered together, and they roll the stone from the well's mouth. Then 
we water the sheep. 

Genesis 29:9 While he was yet speaking with them, Rachel came 
with her father's sheep. For she kept them. 

Genesis 29:10 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the 
daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his 
mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the 
well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother. 

Genesis 29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and 
wept. 

Genesis 29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, 
and that he was Rebekah's son. And she ran and told her father. 


Genesis 29:13 And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of 
Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and 
kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these 
things. 

Genesis 29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and 
my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month. 

Genesis 29:15 And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my 
brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? Tell me, what 
shall thy wages be? 

Genesis 29:16 And Laban had two daughters. The name of the elder 
was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. 

Genesis 29:17 And Leah's eyes were tender. But Rachel was 
beautiful and well favored. 

Genesis 29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel. And he said, I will serve 
thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter. 

Genesis 29:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than 
that I should give her to another man. Abide with me. 

Genesis 29:20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel. And they 
seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her. 

Genesis 29:21 And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my 
days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her. 

Genesis 29:22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, 
and made a feast. 

Genesis 29:23 And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah 
his daughter, and brought her to him. And he went in unto her. 

Genesis 29:24 And Laban gave Zilpah his handmaid unto his 
daughter Leah for a handmaid. 

Genesis 29:25 And it came to pass in the morning that, behold, it was 
Leah. And he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? 
Did not I serve with thee for Rachel? Wherefore then hast thou 
beguiled me? 

Genesis 29:26 And Laban said, It is not so done in our place, to give 
the younger before the first-born. 


Genesis 29:27 Fulfil the week of this one, and we will give thee the 
other also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven 
other years. 

Genesis 29:28 And jacob did so, and fulfilled her week. And he gave 
him Rachel his daughter to wife. 

Genesis 29:29 And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his 
handmaid to be her handmaid. 

Genesis 29:30 And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also 
Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years. 

Genesis 29:31 And Jehovah saw that Leah was hated, and he opened 
her womb. But Rachel was barren. 

Genesis 29:32 And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called 
his name Reuben. For she said, Because Jehovah hath looked upon 
my affliction. For now my husband will love me. 

Genesis 29:33 And she conceived again, and bare a son: and said, 
Because Jehovah hath heard that I am hated, he hath therefore given 
me this [son] also. And she called his name Simeon. 

Genesis 29:34 And she conceived again, and bare a son. And said, 
Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have 
borne him three sons. Therefore was his name called Levi. 

Genesis 29:35 And she conceived again, and bare a son. And she 
said, This time will I praise Jehovah. Therefore she called his name 
Judah. And she left off bearing. 

Genesis 30 

Genesis 30:1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, 
Rachel envied her sister; and she said unto Jacob, Give me children, 
or else I die. 

Genesis 30:2 And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he 
said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of 
the womb? 


Genesis 30:3 And she said, Behold, my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; 
that she may bear upon my knees, and I also may obtain children by 
her. 

Genesis 30:4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and 
Jacob went in unto her. 

Genesis 30:5 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son. 

Genesis 30:6 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also 
heard my voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his 
name Dan. 

Genesis 30:7 And Bilhah Rachel's handmaid conceived again, and 
bare Jacob a second son. 

Genesis 30:8 And Rachel said, With mighty wrestlings have I 
wrestled with my sister, and have prevailed: and she called his name 
Naphtali. 

Genesis 30:9 When Leah saw that she had left off bearing, she took 
Zilpah her handmaid, and gave her to Jacob to wife. 

Genesis 30:10 And Zilpah Leah's handmaid bare Jacob a son. 

Genesis 30:11 And Leah said, Fortunate! and she called his name 
Gad. 

Genesis 30:12 And Zilpah Leah's handmaid bare Jacob a second son. 

Genesis 30:13 And Leah said, Happy am I! for the daughters will 
call me happy: and she called his name Asher. 

Genesis 30:14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and 
found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother 
Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's 
mandrakes. 

Genesis 30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou 
hast taken away my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's 
mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to-
night for thy son's mandrakes. 

Genesis 30:16 And Jacob came from the field in the evening, and 
Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for 


I have surely hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with 
her that night. 

Genesis 30:17 And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, 
and bare Jacob a fifth son. 

Genesis 30:18 And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I 
gave my handmaid to my husband: and she called his name Issachar. 

Genesis 30:19 And Leah conceived again, and bare a sixth son to 
Jacob. 

Genesis 30:20 And Leah said, God hath endowed me with a good 
dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have borne 
him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun. 

Genesis 30:21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her 
name Dinah. 

Genesis 30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to 
her, and opened her womb. 

Genesis 30:23 And she conceived, and bare a son: and said, God hath 
taken away my reproach: 

Genesis 30:24 and she called his name Joseph, saying, Jehovah add 
to me another son. 

Genesis 30:25 And it came to pass, when Rachel had borne Joseph, 
that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine 
own place, and to my country. 

Genesis 30:26 Give me my wives and my children for whom I have 
served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service wherewith I 
have served thee. 

Genesis 30:27 And Laban said unto him, If now I have found favor 
in thine eyes, [tarry]: [for] I have divined that Jehovah hath blessed 
me for thy sake. 

Genesis 30:28 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it. 

Genesis 30:29 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have 
served thee, and how thy cattle have fared with me. 


Genesis 30:30 For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it 
hath increased unto a multitude; and Jehovah hath blessed thee 
whithersoever I turned: and now when shall I provide for mine own 
house also? 

Genesis 30:31 And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, 
Thou shalt not give me aught: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will 
again feed thy flock and keep it. 

Genesis 30:32 I will pass through all thy flock to-day, removing from 
thence every speckled and spotted one, and every black one among 
the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and [of 
such] shall be my hire. 

Genesis 30:33 So shall my righteousness answer for me hereafter, 
when thou shalt come concerning my hire that is before thee: every 
one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and black 
among the sheep, that [if found] with me, shall be counted stolen. 

Genesis 30:34 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be 
according to thy word. 

Genesis 30:35 And he removed that day the he-goats that were 
ringstreaked and spotted, and all the she-goats that were speckled and 
spotted, every one that had white in it, and all the black ones among 
the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons; 

Genesis 30:36 and he set three days' journey betwixt himself and 
Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks. 

Genesis 30:37 And Jacob took him rods of fresh poplar, and of the 
almond and of the plane-tree. And peeled white streaks in them, and 
made the white appear which was in the rods. 

Genesis 30:38 And he set the rods which he had peeled over against 
the flocks in the gutters in the watering-troughs where the flocks 
came to drink; and they conceived when they came to drink. 

Genesis 30:39 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and the 
flocks brought forth ringstreaked, speckled, and spotted. 

Genesis 30:40 And Jacob separated the lambs, and set the faces of 
the flocks toward the ringstreaked and all the black in the flock of 
Laban: and he put his own droves apart, and put them not unto 
Laban's flock. 


Genesis 30:41 And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger of the 
flock did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the 
flock in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods; 

Genesis 30:42 but when the flock were feeble, he put them not in: so 
the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's. 

Genesis 30:43 And the man increased exceedingly, and had large 
flocks, and maid-servants and men-servants, and camels and asses. 

Genesis 31 

Genesis 31:1 And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob 
hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our 
father's hath he gotten all this glory. 

Genesis 31:2 And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, 
behold, it was not toward him as beforetime. 

Genesis 31:3 And Jehovah said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of 
thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee. 

Genesis 31:4 And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field 
unto his flock, 

Genesis 31:5 and said unto them, I see your father's countenance, 
that it is not toward me as beforetime; but the God of my father hath 
been with me. 

Genesis 31:6 And ye know that will all my power I have served your 
father. 

Genesis 31:7 And your father hath deceived me, and changed my 
wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me. 

Genesis 31:8 If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then 
all the flock bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstreaked shall 
be thy wages; then bare all the flock ringstreaked. 

Genesis 31:9 Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and 
given them to me. 

Genesis 31:10 And it came to pass at the time that the flock 
conceive, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, 


the he-goats which leaped upon the flock were ringstreaked, 
speckled, and grizzled. 

Genesis 31:11 And the angel of God said unto me in the dream, 
Jacob: and I said, Here am I. 

Genesis 31:12 And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the 
he-goats which leap upon the flock are ringstreaked, speckled, and 
grizzled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee. 

Genesis 31:13 I am the God of Beth-el, where thou anointedst a 
pillar, where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out 
from this land, and return unto the land of thy nativity. 

Genesis 31:14 And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is 
there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house? 

Genesis 31:15 Are we not accounted by him as foreigners? for he 
hath sold us, and hath also quite devoured our money. 

Genesis 31:16 For all the riches which God hath taken away from 
our father, that is ours and our children's: now then, whatsoever God 
hath said unto thee, do. 

Genesis 31:17 Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives 
upon the camels; 

Genesis 31:18 and he carried away all his cattle, and all his substance 
which he had gathered, the cattle of his getting, which he had 
gathered in Paddan-aram, to go to Isaac his father unto the land of 
Canaan. 

Genesis 31:19 Now Laban was gone to shear his sheep: and Rachel 
stole the teraphim that were her father's. 

Genesis 31:20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, 
in that he told him not that he fled. 

Genesis 31:21 So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and 
passed over the River, and set his face toward the mountain of 
Gilead. 

Genesis 31:22 And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was 
fled. 


Genesis 31:23 And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after 
him seven days' journey; and he overtook him in the mountain of 
Gilead. 

Genesis 31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream of the 
night, and said unto him, Take heed to thyself that thou speak not to 
Jacob either good or bad. 

Genesis 31:25 And Laban came up with Jacob. Now Jacob had 
pitched his tent in the mountain: and Laban with his brethren 
encamped in the mountain of Gilead. 

Genesis 31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that 
thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my 
daughters as captives of the sword? 

Genesis 31:27 Wherefore didst thou flee secretly, and steal away 
from me, and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with 
mirth and with songs, with tabret and with harp; 

Genesis 31:28 and didst not suffer me to kiss my sons and my 
daughters? now hast thou done foolishly. 

Genesis 31:29 It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the 
God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take heed to 
thyself that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad. 

Genesis 31:30 And now, [though] thou wouldest needs be gone, 
because thou sore longedst after thy father's house, [yet] wherefore 
hast thou stolen my gods? 

Genesis 31:31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was 
afraid: for I said, Lest thou shouldest take thy daughters from me by 
force. 

Genesis 31:32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, he shall not 
live: before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take 
it to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them. 

Genesis 31:33 And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, 
and into the tent of the two maid-servants; but he found them not. 
And he went out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent. 

Genesis 31:34 Now Rachel had taken the teraphim, and put them in 
the camel's saddle, and sat upon them. And Laban felt about all the 
tent, but found them not. 


Genesis 31:35 And she said to her father, Let not my lord be angry 
that I cannot rise up before thee; for the manner of women is upon 
me. And he searched, but found not the teraphim. 

Genesis 31:36 And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and 
Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my 
sin, that thou hast hotly pursued after me? 

Genesis 31:37 Whereas thou hast felt about all my stuff, what hast 
thou found of all thy household stuff? Set it here before my brethren 
and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us two. 

Genesis 31:38 These twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes 
and thy she-goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy 
flocks have I not eaten. 

Genesis 31:39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; 
I bare the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen 
by day or stolen by night. 

Genesis 31:40 Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and 
the frost by night; and my sleep fled from mine eyes. 

Genesis 31:41 These twenty years have I been in thy house; I served 
thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy flock: 
and thou hast changed my wages ten times. 

Genesis 31:42 Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, 
and the Fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely now hadst thou sent 
me away empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labor of my 
hands, and rebuked thee yesternight. 

Genesis 31:43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, The 
daughters are my daughters, and the children are my children, and the 
flocks are my flocks, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I 
do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children whom 
they have borne? 

Genesis 31:44 And now come, let us make a covenant, I and thou; 
and let it be for a witness between me and thee. 

Genesis 31:45 And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar. 

Genesis 31:46 And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and 
they took stones, and made a heap: and they did eat there by the heap. 


Genesis 31:47 And Laban called it Jegar-saha-dutha: but Jacob 
called it Galeed. 

Genesis 31:48 And Laban said, This heap is witness between me and 
thee this day. Therefore was the name of it called Galeed: 

Genesis 31:49 and Mizpah, for he said, Jehovah watch between me 
and thee, when we are absent one from another. 

Genesis 31:50 If thou shalt afflict my daughters, and if thou shalt 
take wives besides my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is 
witness betwixt me and thee. 

Genesis 31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and 
behold the pillar, which I have set betwixt me and thee. 

Genesis 31:52 This heap be witness, and the pillar be witness, that I 
will not pass over this heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over 
this heap and this pillar unto me, for harm. 

Genesis 31:53 The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God 
of their father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the Fear of his 
father Isaac. 

Genesis 31:54 And Jacob offered a sacrifice in the mountain, and 
called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all 
night in the mountain. 

Genesis 31:55 And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed 
his sons and his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed and 
returned unto his place. 

Genesis 32 

Genesis 32:1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met 
him. 

Genesis 32:2 And Jacob said when he saw them, This is God's host: 
and he called the name of that place Mahanaim. 

Genesis 32:3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his 
brother unto the land of Seir, the field of Edom. 


Genesis 32:4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye say 
unto my lord Esau: Thus saith thy servant Jacob, I have sojourned 
with Laban, and stayed until now: 

Genesis 32:5 and I have oxen, and asses, [and] flocks, and men-
servants, and maid-servants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I 
may find favor in thy sight. 

Genesis 32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We 
came to thy brother Esau, and moreover he cometh to meet thee, and 
four hundred men with him. 

Genesis 32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and was distressed: and 
he divided the people that were with him, and the flocks, and the 
herds, and the camels, into two companies; 

Genesis 32:8 and he said, If Esau come to the one company, and 
smite it, then the company which is left shall escape. 

Genesis 32:9 And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God 
of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, who saidst unto me, Return unto thy 
country, and to thy kindred, and I will do thee good: 

Genesis 32:10 I am not worthy of the least of all the 
lovingkindnesses, and of all the truth, which thou hast showed unto 
thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am 
become two companies. 

Genesis 32:11 Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, 
from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he come and smite me, the 
mother with the children. 

Genesis 32:12 And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make 
thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for 
multitude. 

Genesis 32:13 And he lodged there that night, and took of that which 
he had with him a present for Esau his brother: 

Genesis 32:14 two hundred she-goats and twenty he-goats, two 
hundred ewes and twenty rams, 

Genesis 32:15 thirty milch camels and their colts, forty cows and ten 
bulls, twenty she-asses and ten foals. 


Genesis 32:16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, 
every drove by itself, and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, 
and put a space betwixt drove and drove. 

Genesis 32:17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau 
my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? 
and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee? 

Genesis 32:18 then thou shalt say [They are] thy servant Jacob's; it is 
a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, he also is behind us. 

Genesis 32:19 And he commanded also the second, and the third, 
and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye 
speak unto Esau, when ye find him; 

Genesis 32:20 and ye shall say, Moreover, behold, thy servant Jacob 
is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that 
goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he 
will accept me. 

Genesis 32:21 So the present passed over before him: and he himself 
lodged that night in the company. 

Genesis 32:22 And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and 
his two handmaids, and his eleven children, and passed over the ford 
of the Jabbok. 

Genesis 32:23 And he took them, and sent them over the stream, and 
sent over that which he had. 

Genesis 32:24 And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man 
with him until the breaking of the day. 

Genesis 32:25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, 
he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh 
was strained, as he wrestled with him. 

Genesis 32:26 And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he 
said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 

Genesis 32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, 
Jacob. 

Genesis 32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, 
but Israel: for thou hast striven with God and with men, and hast 
prevailed. 


Genesis 32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, 
thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my 
name? And he blessed him there. 

Genesis 32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for, 
[said he], I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. 

Genesis 32:31 And the sun rose upon him as he passed over Penuel, 
and he limped upon his thigh. 

Genesis 32:32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not the sinew of 
the hip which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because 
he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew of the hip. 

Genesis 33 

Genesis 33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, 
Esau was coming, and with him four hundred men. And he divided 
the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two 
handmaids. 

Genesis 33:2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, 
and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. 

Genesis 33:3 And he himself passed over before them, and bowed 
himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother. 

Genesis 33:4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell 
on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept. 

Genesis 33:5 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the 
children; and said, Who are these with thee? And he said, The 
children whom God hath graciously given thy servant. 

Genesis 33:6 Then the handmaids came near, they and their children, 
and they bowed themselves. 

Genesis 33:7 And Leah also and her children came near, and bowed 
themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed 
themselves. 

Genesis 33:8 And he said, What meanest thou by all this company 
which I met? And he said, To find favor in the sight of my lord. 


Genesis 33:9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; let that 
which thou hast be thine. 

Genesis 33:10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found 
favor in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand; forasmuch as I 
have seen thy face, as one seeth the face of God, and thou wast 
pleased with me. 

Genesis 33:11 Take, I pray thee, my gift that is brought to thee; 
because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have 
enough. And he urged him, and he took it. 

Genesis 33:12 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, 
and I will go before thee. 

Genesis 33:13 And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the 
children are tender, and that the flocks and herds with me have their 
young: and if they overdrive them one day, all the flocks will die. 

Genesis 33:14 Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: 
and I will lead on gently, according to the pace of the cattle that are 
before me and according to the pace of the children, until I come unto 
my lord unto Seir. 

Genesis 33:15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of 
the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find 
favor in the sight of my lord. 

Genesis 33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir. 

Genesis 33:17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him a 
house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place 
is called Succoth. 

Genesis 33:18 And Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, 
which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan-aram; 
and encamped before the city. 

Genesis 33:19 And he bought the parcel of ground, where he had 
spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's 
father, for a hundred pieces of money. 

Genesis 33:20 And he erected there an altar, and called it El-eloheisrael. 



Genesis 34 

Genesis 34:1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she bare unto 
Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. 

Genesis 34:2 And Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince 
of the land, saw her; And he took her, and lay with her, and humbled 
her. 

Genesis 34:3 And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, 
and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel. 

Genesis 34:4 And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get 
me this damsel to wife. 

Genesis 34:5 Now Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his 
daughter; and his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob 
held his peace until they came. 

Genesis 34:6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob 
to commune with him. 

Genesis 34:7 And the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they 
heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, 
because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter; 
which thing ought not to be done. 

Genesis 34:8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of 
my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you, give her unto 
him to wife. 

Genesis 34:9 And make ye marriages with us; give your daughters 
unto us, and take our daughters unto you. 

Genesis 34:10 And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be 
before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions 
therein. 

Genesis 34:11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto her 
brethren, Let me find favor in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto 
me I will give. 

Genesis 34:12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give 
according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife. 


Genesis 34:13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor 
his father with guile, and spake, because he had defiled Dinah their 
sister, 

Genesis 34:14 and said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give 
our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto 
us. 

Genesis 34:15 Only on this condition will we consent unto you: if ye 
will be as we are, that every male of you be circumcised; 

Genesis 34:16 then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will 
take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will 
become one people. 

Genesis 34:17 But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; 
then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone. 

Genesis 34:18 And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem 
Hamor's son. 

Genesis 34:19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing, 
because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was honored 
above all the house of his father. 

Genesis 34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate 
of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying, 

Genesis 34:21 These men are peaceable with us; therefore let them 
dwell in the land, and trade therein; for, behold, the land is large 
enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us 
give them our daughters. 

Genesis 34:22 Only on this condition will the men consent unto us to 
dwell with us, to become one people, if every male among us be 
circumcised, as they are circumcised. 

Genesis 34:23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and all their 
beasts be ours? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell 
with us. 

Genesis 34:24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened 
all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was 
circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city. 


Genesis 34:25 And it came to pass on the third day, when they were 
sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's 
brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city unawares, 
and slew all the males. 

Genesis 34:26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the 
edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went 
forth. 

Genesis 34:27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered 
the city, because they had defiled their sister. 

Genesis 34:28 They took their flocks and their herds and their asses, 
and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field; 

Genesis 34:29 and all their wealth, and all their little ones and their 
wives, took they captive and made a prey, even all that was in the 
house. 

Genesis 34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled 
me, to make me odious to the inhabitants of the land, among the 
Canaanites and the Perizzites: and, I being few in number, they will 
gather themselves together against me and smite me; and I shall be 
destroyed, I and my house. 

Genesis 34:31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with a 
harlot? 

Genesis 35 

Genesis 35:1 And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Beth-el, and 
dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, who appeared unto 
thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother. 

Genesis 35:2 Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that 
were with him, Put away the foreign gods that are among you, and 
purify yourselves, and change your garments: 

Genesis 35:3 and let us arise, and go up to Beth-el; and I will make 
there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, 
and was with me in the way which I went. 

Genesis 35:4 And they gave unto Jacob all the foreign gods which 
were in their hand, and the rings which were in their ears; and Jacob 
hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. 


Genesis 35:5 And they journeyed: and a terror of God was upon the 
cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the 
sons of Jacob. 

Genesis 35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan 
(the same is Beth-el), he and all the people that were with him. 

Genesis 35:7 And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbeth-
el; because there God was revealed unto him, when he fled from 
the face of his brother. 

Genesis 35:8 And Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried 
below Beth-el under the oak: and the name of it was called Allonbacuth. 


Genesis 35:9 And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came 
from Paddan-aram, and blessed him. 

Genesis 35:10 And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name 
shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and 
he called his name Israel. 

Genesis 35:11 And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be 
fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of 
thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins; 

Genesis 35:12 and the land which I gave unto Abraham and Isaac, to 
thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land. 

Genesis 35:13 And God went up from him in the place where he 
spake with him. 

Genesis 35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he spake 
with him, a pillar of stone: and he poured out a drink-offering 
thereon, and poured oil thereon. 

Genesis 35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God 
spake with him, Beth-el. 

Genesis 35:16 And they journeyed from Beth-el; and there was still 
some distance to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had 
hard labor. 


Genesis 35:17 And it came to pass, when she was in hard labor, that 
the midwife said unto her, Fear not; for now thou shalt have another 
son. 

Genesis 35:18 And it came to pass, as her soul was departing (for she 
died), that she called his name Ben-oni: but his father called him 
Benjamin. 

Genesis 35:19 And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to 
Ephrath (the same is Beth-lehem). 

Genesis 35:20 And Jacob set up a pillar upon her grave: the same is 
the Pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day. 

Genesis 35:21 And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the 
tower of Eder. 

Genesis 35:22 And it came to pass, while Israel dwelt in that land, 
that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and 
Israel heard of it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 

Genesis 35:23 The sons of Leah: Reuben, Jacob's first-born, and 
Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun; 

Genesis 35:24 the sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin; 

Genesis 35:25 and the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid: Dan and 
Naphtali; 

Genesis 35:26 and the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid: Gad and 
Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, that were born to him in Paddanaram. 


Genesis 35:27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father to Mamre, to 
Kiriath-arba (the same is Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac 
sojourned. 

Genesis 35:28 And the days of Isaac were a hundred and fourscore 
years. 

Genesis 35:29 And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was 
gathered unto his people, old and full of days: and Esau and Jacob his 
sons buried him. 


Genesis 36 

Genesis 36:1 Now these are the generations of Esau (the same is 
Edom). 

Genesis 36:2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan: Adah 
the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Oholibamah the daughter of 
Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite, 

Genesis 36:3 and Basemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebaioth. 

Genesis 36:4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Basemath bare 
Reuel; 

Genesis 36:5 and Oholibamah bare Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah: 
these are the sons of Esau, that were born unto him in the land of 
Canaan. 

Genesis 36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his 
daughters, and all the souls of his house, and his cattle, and all his 
beasts, and all his possessions, which he had gather in the land of 
Canaan; and went into a land away from his brother Jacob. 

Genesis 36:7 For their substance was too great for them to dwell 
together; and the land of their sojournings could not bear them 
because of their cattle. 

Genesis 36:8 And Esau dwelt in mount Seir: Esau is Edom. 

Genesis 36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the 
Edomites in mount Seir: 

Genesis 36:10 these are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of 
Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Basemath the wife of Esau. 

Genesis 36:11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, 
and Gatam, and Kenaz. 

Genesis 36:12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and 
she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these are the sons of Adah, Esau's wife. 

Genesis 36:13 And these are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, and Zerah, 
Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Basemath, Esau's 
wife. 


Genesis 36:14 And these were the sons of Oholibamah the daughter 
of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau 
Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. 

Genesis 36:15 These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau: the sons of 
Eliphaz the first-born of Esau: chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, 
chief Kenaz, 

Genesis 36:16 chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek: these are the 
chiefs that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of 
Adah. 

Genesis 36:17 And these are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: chief 
Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah: these are the 
chiefs that came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of 
Basemath, Esau's wife. 

Genesis 36:18 And these are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: 
chief Jeush, chief Jalam, chief Korah: these are the chiefs that came 
of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife. 

Genesis 36:19 These are the sons of Esau, and these are their chiefs: 
the same is Edom. 

Genesis 36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants 
of the land: Lotan and Shobal and Zibeon and Anah, 

Genesis 36:21 and Dishon and Ezer and Dishan: these are the chiefs 
that came of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom. 

Genesis 36:22 And the children of Lotan were Hori and Heman. And 
Lotan's sister was Timna. 

Genesis 36:23 And these are the children of Shobal: Alvan and 
Manahath and Ebal, Shepho and Onam. 

Genesis 36:24 And these are the children of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah; 
this is Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he fed 
the asses of Zibeon his father. 

Genesis 36:25 And these are the children of Anah: Dishon and 
Oholibamah the daughter of Anah. 

Genesis 36:26 And these are the children of Dishon: Hemdan and 
Eshban and Ithran and Cheran. 


Genesis 36:27 These are the children of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and 
Akan. 

Genesis 36:28 These are the children of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 

Genesis 36:29 These are the chiefs that came of the Horites: chief 
Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah, 

Genesis 36:30 chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan: these are the 
chiefs that came of the Horites, according to their chiefs in the land of 
Seir. 

Genesis 36:31 And these are the kings that reigned in the land of 
Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel. 

Genesis 36:32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom; and the 
name of his city was Dinhabah. 

Genesis 36:33 And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah 
reigned in his stead. 

Genesis 36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the 
Temanites reigned in his stead. 

Genesis 36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who 
smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name 
of his city was Avith. 

Genesis 36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in 
his stead. 

Genesis 36:37 And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River 
reigned in his stead. 

Genesis 36:38 And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor 
reigned in his stead. 

Genesis 36:39 And Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar 
reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's 
name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 


Genesis 36:40 And these are the names of the chiefs that came of 
Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names: 
chief Timna, chief Alvah, chief Jetheth, 


Genesis 36:41 chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon, 

Genesis 36:42 chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar, 

Genesis 36:43 chief Magdiel, chief Iram: these are the chiefs of 
Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession. 
This is Esau, the father of the Edomites. 

Genesis 37 

Genesis 37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the land of his father's sojournings, 
in the land of Canaan. 

Genesis 37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being 
seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and he 
was a lad with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his 
father's wives: and Joseph brought the evil report of them unto their 
father. 

Genesis 37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, 
because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of 
many colors. 

Genesis 37:4 And his brethren saw that their father loved him more 
than all his brethren; and they hated him, and could not speak 
peaceably unto him. 

Genesis 37:5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his 
brethren: and they hated him yet the more. 

Genesis 37:6 And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream 
which I have dreamed: 

Genesis 37:7 for, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, 
lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves 
came round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. 

Genesis 37:8 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign 
over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated 
him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words. 

Genesis 37:9 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it to his 
brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed yet a dream: and, behold, 
the sun and the moon and eleven stars made obeisance to me. 


Genesis 37:10 And he told it to his father, and to his brethren; and 
his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that 
thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed 
come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? 

Genesis 37:11 And his brethren envied him; but his father kept the 
saying in mind. 

Genesis 37:12 And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in 
Shechem. 

Genesis 37:13 And Israel said unto Joseph, Are not thy brethren 
feeding the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee unto them. 
And he said to him, Here am I. 

Genesis 37:14 And he said to him, Go now, see whether it is well 
with thy brethren, and well with the flock; and bring me word again. 
So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 

Genesis 37:15 And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was 
wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest 
thou? 

Genesis 37:16 And he said, I am seeking my brethren: tell me, I pray 
thee, where they are feeding [the flock]. 

Genesis 37:17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I 
heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his 
brethren, and found them in Dothan. 

Genesis 37:18 And they saw him afar off, and before he came near 
unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. 

Genesis 37:19 And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer 
cometh. 

Genesis 37:20 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him 
into one of the pits, and we will say, And evil beast hath devoured 
him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams. 

Genesis 37:21 And Reuben heard it, and delivered him out of their 
hand, and said, Let us not take his life. 

Genesis 37:22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood; cast him 
into this pit that is in the wilderness, but lay no hand upon him: that 
he might deliver him out of their hand, to restore him to his father. 


Genesis 37:23 And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his 
brethren, that they stripped Joseph of his coat, the coat of many 
colors that was on him; 

Genesis 37:24 and they took him, and cast him into the pit: and the 
pit was empty, there was no water in it. 

Genesis 37:25 And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up 
their eyes and looked, and, behold, a caravan of Ishmaelites was 
coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing spicery and balm and 
myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. 

Genesis 37:26 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if 
we slay our brother and conceal his blood? 

Genesis 37:27 Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let 
not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother, our flesh. And his 
brethren hearkened unto him. 

Genesis 37:28 And there passed by Midianites, merchantmen; and 
they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the 
Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver. And they brought Joseph into 
Egypt. 

Genesis 37:29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph 
was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes. 

Genesis 37:30 And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child 
is not; and I, whither shall I go? 

Genesis 37:31 And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a he-goat, and 
dipped the coat in the blood; 

Genesis 37:32 and they sent the coat of many colors, and they 
brought it to their father, and said, This have we found: know now 
whether it is thy son's coat or not. 

Genesis 37:33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat: an evil 
beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt torn in pieces. 

Genesis 37:34 And Jacob rent his garments, and put sackcloth upon 
his loins, and mourned for his son many days. 


Genesis 37:35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to 
comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will 
go down to Sheol to my son mourning. And his father wept for him. 

Genesis 37:36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, 
an officer of Pharaoh's, the captain of the guard. 

Genesis 38 

Genesis 38:1 And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down 
from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name 
was Hirah. 

Genesis 38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite 
whose name was Shua. And he took her, and went in unto her. 

Genesis 38:3 And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his 
name Er. 

Genesis 38:4 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she 
called his name Onan. 

Genesis 38:5 And she yet again bare a son, and called his name 
Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him. 

Genesis 38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his first-born, and her 
name was Tamar. 

Genesis 38:7 And Er, Judah's first-born, was wicked in the sight of 
Jehovah. And Jehovah slew him. 

Genesis 38:8 And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's 
wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother unto her, and raise 
up seed to thy brother. 

Genesis 38:9 And Onan knew that the seed would not be his; and it 
came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled 
it on the ground, lest he should give seed to his brother. 

Genesis 38:10 And the thing which he did was evil in the sight of 
Jehovah: and he slew him also. 

Genesis 38:11 Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter-in-law, 
Remain a widow in thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown 


up; for he said, Lest he also die, like his brethren. And Tamar went 
and dwelt in her father's house. 

Genesis 38:12 And in process of time Shua's daughter, the wife of 
Judah, died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers 
to Timnah, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite. 

Genesis 38:13 And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold, thy father-inlaw 
goeth up to Timnah to shear his sheep. 

Genesis 38:14 And she put off from her the garments of her 
widowhood, and covered herself with her veil, and wrapped herself, 
and sat in the gate of Enaim, which is by the way to Timnah; for she 
saw that Shelah was grown up, and she was not given unto him to 
wife. 

Genesis 38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought her to be a harlot; for 
she had covered her face. 

Genesis 38:16 And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Come, I 
pray thee, let me come in unto thee: for he knew not that she was his 
daughter-in-law. And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou 
mayest come in unto me? 

Genesis 38:17 And he said, I will send thee a kid of the goats from 
the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it? 

Genesis 38:18 And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she 
said, Thy signet and thy cord, and thy staff that is in thy hand. And he 
gave them to her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him. 

Genesis 38:19 And she arose, and went away, and put off her veil 
from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood. 

Genesis 38:20 And Judah sent the kid of the goats by the hand of his 
friend the Adullamite, to receive the pledge from the woman's hand: 
but he found her not. 

Genesis 38:21 Then he asked the men of her place, saying, Where is 
the prostitute, that was at Enaim by the wayside? And they said, 
There hath been no prostitute here. 

Genesis 38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I have not found 
her; and also the men of the place said, There hath been no prostitute 
here. 


Genesis 38:23 And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be put to 
shame: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her. 

Genesis 38:24 And it came to pass about three months after, that it 
was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter-in-law hath played the 
harlot; and moreover, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And 
Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt. 

Genesis 38:25 When she was brought forth, she sent to her father-inlaw, 
saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she 
said, Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and the cords, 
and the staff. 

Genesis 38:26 And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She is more 
righteous than I; forasmuch as I gave her not to Shelah my son. And 
he knew her again no more. 

Genesis 38:27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, 
behold, twins were in her womb. 

Genesis 38:28 And it came to pass, when she travailed, that one put 
out a hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet 
thread, saying, This came out first. 

Genesis 38:29 And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, 
behold, his brother came out: and she said, Wherefore hast thou made 
a breach for thyself? Therefore his name was called Perez. 

Genesis 38:30 And afterward came out his brother, that had the 
scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zerah. 

Genesis 39 

Genesis 39:1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, 
an officer of Pharaoh's, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought 
him of the hand of the Ishmaelites, that had brought him down 
thither. 

Genesis 39:2 And Jehovah was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous 
man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian. 

Genesis 39:3 And his master saw that Jehovah was with him, and 
that Jehovah made all that he did to prosper in his hand. 


Genesis 39:4 And Joseph found favor in his sight, and he ministered 
unto him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he 
had he put into his hand. 

Genesis 39:5 And it came to pass from the time that he made him 
overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that Jehovah blessed 
the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of Jehovah 
was upon all that he had, in the house and in the field. 

Genesis 39:6 And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he 
knew not aught [that was] with him, save the bread which he did eat. 
And Joseph was comely, and well-favored. 

Genesis 39:7 And it came to pass after these things, that his master's 
wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me. 

Genesis 39:8 But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, 
my master knoweth not what is with me in the house, and he hath put 
all that he hath into my hand: 

Genesis 39:9 he is not greater in this house than I; neither hath he 
kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife: how 
then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God? 

Genesis 39:10 And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by 
day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, [or] to be with her. 

Genesis 39:11 And it came to pass about this time, that he went into 
the house to do his work; and there was none of the men of the house 
there within. 

Genesis 39:12 And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with 
me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out. 

Genesis 39:13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his 
garment in her hand, and was fled forth, 

Genesis 39:14 that she called unto the men of her house, and spake 
unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in a Hebrew unto us to mock 
us: he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice: 

Genesis 39:15 and it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my 
voice and cried, that he left his garment by me, and fled, and got him 
out. 


Genesis 39:16 And she laid up his garment by her, until his master 
came home. 

Genesis 39:17 And she spake unto him according to these words, 
saying, The Hebrew servant, whom thou hast brought unto us, came 
in unto me to mock me: 

Genesis 39:18 and it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, 
that he left his garment by me, and fled out. 

Genesis 39:19 And it came to pass, when his master heard the words 
of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did 
thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled. 

Genesis 39:20 And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the 
prison, the place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was 
there in the prison. 

Genesis 39:21 But Jehovah was with Joseph, and showed kindness 
unto him, and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. 

Genesis 39:22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's 
hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they 
did there, he was the doer of it. 

Genesis 39:23 The keeper of the prison looked not to anything that 
was under his hand, because Jehovah was with him; and that which 
he did, Jehovah made it prosper. 

Genesis 40 

Genesis 40:1 And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of 
the king of Egypt and his baker offended their lord the king of Egypt. 

Genesis 40:2 And Pharaoh was wroth against his two officers, 
against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers. 

Genesis 40:3 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of 
the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. 

Genesis 40:4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, 
and he ministered unto them: and they continued a season in ward. 

Genesis 40:5 And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his 
dream, in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his 


dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were bound 
in the prison. 

Genesis 40:6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and saw 
them, and, behold, they were sad. 

Genesis 40:7 And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in 
ward in his master's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sad to-day? 

Genesis 40:8 And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, 
and there is none that can interpret it. And Joseph said unto them, Do 
not interpretations belong to God? tell it me, I pray you. 

Genesis 40:9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said 
to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 

Genesis 40:10 and in the vine were three branches: and it was as 
though it budded, [and] its blossoms shot forth; [and] the clusters 
thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 

Genesis 40:11 and Pharaoh's cup was in my hand; and I took the 
grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into 
Pharaoh's hand. 

Genesis 40:12 And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of 
it: the three branches are three days; 

Genesis 40:13 within yet three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head, 
and restore thee unto thine office: and thou shalt give Pharaoh's cup 
into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler. 

Genesis 40:14 But have me in thy remembrance when it shall be well 
with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make 
mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house: 

Genesis 40:15 for indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the 
Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me 
into the dungeon. 

Genesis 40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was 
good, he said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, three 
baskets of white bread were on my head: 

Genesis 40:17 and in the uppermost basket there was of all manner 
of baked food for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the 
basket upon my head. 


Genesis 40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the 
interpretation thereof: the three baskets are three days; 

Genesis 40:19 within yet three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head 
from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy 
flesh from off thee. 

Genesis 40:20 And it came to pass the third day, which was 
Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he 
lifted up the head of the chief butler and the head of the chief baker 
among his servants. 

Genesis 40:21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership 
again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand: 

Genesis 40:22 but he hanged the chief baker: as Joseph had 
interpreted to them. 

Genesis 40:23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but 
forgat him. 

Genesis 41 

Genesis 41:1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that 
Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river. 

Genesis 41:2 And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, 
well-favored and fat-fleshed; and they fed in the reed-grass. 

Genesis 41:3 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out 
of the river, ill-favored and lean-fleshed, and stood by the other kine 
upon the brink of the river. 

Genesis 41:4 And the ill-favored and lean-fleshed kine did eat up the 
seven well-favored and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke. 

Genesis 41:5 And he slept and dreamed a second time: and, behold, 
seven ears of grain came up upon one stalk, rank and good. 

Genesis 41:6 And, behold, seven ears, thin and blasted with the east 
wind, sprung up after them. 

Genesis 41:7 And the thin ears swallowed up the seven rank and full 
ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream. 


Genesis 41:8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was 
troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and 
all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there 
was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. 

Genesis 41:9 Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do 
remember my faults this day: 

Genesis 41:10 Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in 
ward in the house of the captain of the guard, me and the chief baker: 

Genesis 41:11 and we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we 
dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream. 

Genesis 41:12 And there was with us there a young man, a Hebrew, 
servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he 
interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he 
did interpret. 

Genesis 41:13 And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; 
me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged. 

Genesis 41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they 
brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and 
changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. 

Genesis 41:15 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a 
dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of 
thee, that when thou hearest a dream thou canst interpret it. 

Genesis 41:16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: 
God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace. 

Genesis 41:17 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, 
I stood upon the brink of the river: 

Genesis 41:18 and, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, 
fat-fleshed and well-favored: and they fed in the reed-grass: 

Genesis 41:19 and, behold, seven other kine came up after them, 
poor and very ill-favored and lean-fleshed, such as I never saw in all 
the land of Egypt for badness: 

Genesis 41:20 and the lean and ill-favored kine did eat up the first 
seven fat kine: 


Genesis 41:21 and when they had eaten them up, it could not be 
known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill-favored, as at 
the beginning. So I awoke. 

Genesis 41:22 And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came 
up upon one stalk, full and good: 

Genesis 41:23 and, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, [and] blasted 
with the east wind, sprung up after them: 

Genesis 41:24 and the thin ears swallowed up the seven good ears: 
and I told it unto the magicians; but there was none that could declare 
it to me. 

Genesis 41:25 And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh 
is one: what God is about to do he hath declared unto Pharaoh. 

Genesis 41:26 The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven 
good ears are seven years: the dream is one. 

Genesis 41:27 And the seven lean and ill-favored kine that came up 
after them are seven years, and also the seven empty ears blasted with 
the east wind; they shall be seven years of famine. 

Genesis 41:28 That is the thing which I spake unto Pharaoh: what 
God is about to do he hath showed unto Pharaoh. 

Genesis 41:29 Behold, there come seven years of great plenty 
throughout all the land of Egypt: 

Genesis 41:30 and there shall arise after them seven years of famine; 
and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the 
famine shall consume the land; 

Genesis 41:31 and the plenty shall not be known in the land by 
reason of that famine which followeth; for it shall be very grievous. 

Genesis 41:32 And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh, it 
is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring 
it to pass. 

Genesis 41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and 
wise, and set him over the land of Egypt. 


Genesis 41:34 Let Pharaoh do [this], and let him appoint overseers 
over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the 
seven plenteous years. 

Genesis 41:35 And let them gather all the food of these good years 
that come, and lay up grain under the hand of Pharaoh for food in the 
cities, and let them keep it. 

Genesis 41:36 And the food shall be for a store to the land against 
the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that 
the land perish not through the famine. 

Genesis 41:37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in 
the eyes of all his servants. 

Genesis 41:38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such 
a one as this, a man in whom the spirit of God is? 

Genesis 41:39 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God 
hath showed thee all of this, there is none so discreet and wise as 
thou: 

Genesis 41:40 thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy 
word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater 
than thou. 

Genesis 41:41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee 
over all the land of Egypt. 

Genesis 41:42 And Pharaoh took off his signet ring from his hand, 
and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine 
linen, and put a gold chain about his neck; 

Genesis 41:43 and he made him to ride in the second chariot which 
he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he set him over 
all the land of Egypt. 

Genesis 41:44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and 
without thee shall no man lift up his hand or his foot in all the land of 
Egypt. 

Genesis 41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphenath-paneah; 
and he gave him to wife Asenath, the daughter of Poti-phera priest of 
On. And Joseph went out over the land of Egypt. 


Genesis 41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before 
Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of 
Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. 

Genesis 41:47 And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought 
forth by handfuls. 

Genesis 41:48 And he gathered up all the food of the seven years 
which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the 
food of the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the 
same. 

Genesis 41:49 And Joseph laid up grain as the sand of the sea, very 
much, until he left off numbering; for it was without number. 

Genesis 41:50 And unto Joseph were born two sons before the year 
of famine came, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of 
On, bare unto him. 

Genesis 41:51 And Joseph called the name of the first-born 
Manasseh: For, [said he], God hath made me forget all my toil, and 
all my father's house. 

Genesis 41:52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For 
God hath made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. 

Genesis 41:53 And the seven years of plenty, that was in the land of 
Egypt, came to an end. 

Genesis 41:54 And the seven years of famine began to come, 
according as Joseph had said: and there was famine in all lands; but 
in all the land of Egypt there was bread. 

Genesis 41:55 And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the 
people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the 
Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do. 

Genesis 41:56 And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and 
Joseph opened all the store-houses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and 
the famine was sore in the land of Egypt. 

Genesis 41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph to buy 
grain, because the famine was sore in all the earth. 


Genesis 42 

Genesis 42:1 Now Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, and 
Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another? 

Genesis 42:2 And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is grain in 
Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may 
live, and not die. 

Genesis 42:3 And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy grain from 
Egypt. 

Genesis 42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his 
brethren; for he said, Lest Peradventure harm befall him. 

Genesis 42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy among those that 
came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan. 

Genesis 42:6 And Joseph was the governor over the land; he it was 
that sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came, 
and bowed down themselves to him with their faces to the earth. 

Genesis 42:7 And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but 
made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly with them; and 
he said unto them. Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of 
Canaan to buy food. 

Genesis 42:8 And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him. 

Genesis 42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed 
of them, and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the 
land ye are come. 

Genesis 42:10 And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food 
are thy servants come. 

Genesis 42:11 We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy 
servants are no spies. 

Genesis 42:12 And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness 
of the land ye are come. 

Genesis 42:13 And they said, We thy servants are twelve brethren, 
the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest 
is this day with our father, and one is not. 


Genesis 42:14 And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto 
you, saying, Ye are spies: 

Genesis 42:15 hereby ye shall be proved: by the life of Pharaoh ye 
shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither. 

Genesis 42:16 Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and 
ye shall be bound, that your words may be proved, whether there be 
truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies. 

Genesis 42:17 And he put them all together into ward three days. 

Genesis 42:18 And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and 
live: for I fear God: 

Genesis 42:19 if ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in 
your prison-house; but go ye, carry grain for the famine of your 
houses: 

Genesis 42:20 and bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall 
your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so. 

Genesis 42:21 And they said one to another, We are verily guilty 
concerning our brother, in that we saw the distress of his soul, when 
he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come 
upon us. 

Genesis 42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto 
you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? 
therefore also, behold, his blood is required. 

Genesis 42:23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for 
there was an interpreter between them. 

Genesis 42:24 And he turned himself about from them, and wept; 
and he returned to them, and spake to them, and took Simeon from 
among them, and bound him before their eyes. 

Genesis 42:25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their vessels with 
grain, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give 
them provisions for the way: and thus was it done unto them. 

Genesis 42:26 And they laded their asses with their grain, and 
departed thence. 


Genesis 42:27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass 
provender in the lodging-place, he espied his money; and, behold, it 
was in the mouth of his sack. 

Genesis 42:28 And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; 
and, lo, it is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they 
turned trembling one to another, saying, What is this that God hath 
done unto us? 

Genesis 42:29 And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of 
Canaan, and told him all that had befallen them, saying, 

Genesis 42:30 The man, the lord of the land, spake roughly with us, 
and took us for spies of the country. 

Genesis 42:31 And we said unto him, We are true men; and we are 
no spies: 

Genesis 42:32 we are twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, 
and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. 

Genesis 42:33 And the man, the lord of the land, said unto us, 
Hereby shall I know that ye are true men: leave one of your brethren 
with me, and take [grain for] the famine of your houses, and go your 
way; 

Genesis 42:34 and bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I 
know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver 
you your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land. 

Genesis 42:35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, 
behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when they 
and their father saw their bundles of money, they were afraid. 

Genesis 42:36 And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye 
bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye 
will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me. 

Genesis 42:37 And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my 
two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I 
will bring him to thee again. 

Genesis 42:38 And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for 
his brother is dead, and he only is left: if harm befall him by the way 
in which ye go, then will ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to 
Sheol. 


Genesis 43 

Genesis 43:1 And the famine was sore in the land. 

Genesis 43:2 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the grain 
which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go 
again, buy us a little food. 

Genesis 43:3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did 
solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except 
your brother be with you. 

Genesis 43:4 If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down 
and buy thee food: 

Genesis 43:5 but if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down; for 
the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother 
be with you. 

Genesis 43:6 And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to 
tell the man whether ye had yet a brother? 

Genesis 43:7 And they said, The man asked straitly concerning 
ourselves, and concerning our kindred, saying, Is your father yet 
alive? have ye [another] brother? and we told him according to the 
tenor of these words: could we in any wise know that he would say, 
Bring your brother down? 

Genesis 43:8 And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with 
me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, 
and thou, and also our little ones. 

Genesis 43:9 I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require 
him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me 
bear the blame for ever: 

Genesis 43:10 for except we had lingered, surely we had now 
returned a second time. 

Genesis 43:11 And their father Israel said unto them, If it be so now, 
do this: take of the choice fruits of the land in your vessels, and carry 
down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spicery and 
myrrh, nuts, and almonds; 


Genesis 43:12 and take double money in your hand; and the money 
that was returned in the mouth of your sacks carry again in your 
hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 

Genesis 43:13 take also your brother, and arise, go again unto the 
man: 

Genesis 43:14 and God Almighty give you mercy before the man, 
that he may release unto you your other brother and Benjamin. And if 
I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. 

Genesis 43:15 And the men took that present, and they took double 
money in their hand, and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to 
Egypt, and stood before Joseph. 

Genesis 43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to 
the steward of his house, Bring the men into the house, and slay, and 
make ready; for the men shall dine with me at noon. 

Genesis 43:17 And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought 
the men to Joseph's house. 

Genesis 43:18 And the men were afraid, because they were brought 
to Joseph's house; and they said, Because of the money that was 
returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may 
seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, 
and our asses. 

Genesis 43:19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, 
and they spake unto him at the door of the house, 

Genesis 43:20 and said, Oh, my lord, we came indeed down at the 
first time to buy food: 

Genesis 43:21 and it came to pass, when we came to the lodgingplace, 
that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man's money was 
in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have 
brought it again in our hand. 

Genesis 43:22 And other money have we brought down in our hand 
to buy food: we know not who put our money in our sacks. 

Genesis 43:23 And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and 
the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had 
your money. And he brought Simeon out unto them. 


Genesis 43:24 And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and 
gave them water, and they washed their feet. And he gave their asses 
provender. 

Genesis 43:25 And they made ready the present against Joseph's 
coming at noon: for they heard that they should eat bread there. 

Genesis 43:26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the 
present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed down 
themselves to him to the earth. 

Genesis 43:27 And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your 
father well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive? 

Genesis 43:28 And they said, Thy servant our father is well, he is yet 
alive. And they bowed the head, and made obeisance. 

Genesis 43:29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw Benjamin his 
brother, his mother's son, and said, Is this your youngest brother, of 
whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my 
son. 

Genesis 43:30 And Joseph made haste; for his heart yearned over his 
brother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his 
chamber, and wept there. 

Genesis 43:31 And he washed his face, and came out; and he 
refrained himself, and said, Set on bread. 

Genesis 43:32 And they set on for him by himself, and for them by 
themselves, and for the Egyptians, that did eat with him, by 
themselves: because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the 
Hebrews; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians. 

Genesis 43:33 And they sat before him, the first-born according to 
his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men 
marvelled one with another. 

Genesis 43:34 And he took [and sent] messes unto them from before 
him: but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs. 
And they drank, and were merry with him. 


Genesis 44 

Genesis 44:1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, 
Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put 
every man's money in his sack's mouth. 

Genesis 44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of 
the youngest, and his grain money. And he did according to the word 
that Joseph had spoken. 

Genesis 44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent 
away, they and their asses. 

Genesis 44:4 [And] when they were gone out of the city, and were 
not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the 
men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore 
have ye rewarded evil for good? 

Genesis 44:5 Is not this that in which my lord drinketh, and whereby 
he indeed divineth? ye have done evil in so doing. 

Genesis 44:6 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these 
words. 

Genesis 44:7 And they said unto him, Wherefore speaketh my lord 
such words as these? Far be it from thy servants that they should do 
such a thing. 

Genesis 44:8 Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' 
mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how 
then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? 

Genesis 44:9 With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, let him 
die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen. 

Genesis 44:10 And he said, Now also let it be according unto your 
words: he with whom it is found shall be my bondman; and ye shall 
be blameless. 

Genesis 44:11 Then they hasted, and took down every man his sack 
to the ground, and opened every man his sack. 

Genesis 44:12 And he searched, [and] began at the eldest, and left off 
at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. 


Genesis 44:13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his 
ass, and returned to the city. 

Genesis 44:14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; 
and he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground. 

Genesis 44:15 And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye 
have done? know ye not that such a man as I can indeed divine? 

Genesis 44:16 And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? 
what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath 
found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we are my lord's 
bondmen, both we, and he also in whose hand the cup is found. 

Genesis 44:17 And he said, Far be it from me that I should do so: the 
man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my bondman; but as 
for you, get you up in peace unto your father. 

Genesis 44:18 Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh, my 
lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and 
let not thine anger burn against thy servant; for thou art even as 
Pharaoh. 

Genesis 44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, 
or a brother? 

Genesis 44:20 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old 
man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, 
and he alone is left of his mother; and his father loveth him. 

Genesis 44:21 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down 
unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him. 

Genesis 44:22 And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his 
father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die. 

Genesis 44:23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your 
youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more. 

Genesis 44:24 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy 
servant my father, we told him the words of my lord. 

Genesis 44:25 And our father said, Go again, buy us a little food. 


Genesis 44:26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest 
brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the 
man's face, expect our youngest brother be with us. 

Genesis 44:27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that 
my wife bare me two sons: 

Genesis 44:28 and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is 
torn in pieces; and I have not seen him since: 

Genesis 44:29 and if ye take this one also from me, and harm befall 
him, ye will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol. 

Genesis 44:30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, 
and the lad is not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's 
life; 

Genesis 44:31 it will come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not 
[with us], that he will die: and thy servants will bring down the gray 
hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to Sheol. 

Genesis 44:32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my 
father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then shall I bear the blame 
to my father for ever. 

Genesis 44:33 Now therefore, let thy servant, I pray thee, abide 
instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with 
his brethren. 

Genesis 44:34 For how shall I go up to my father, if the lad be not 
with me? lest I see the evil that shall come on my father. 

Genesis 45 

Genesis 45:1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them 
that stood before him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from 
me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself 
known unto his brethren. 

Genesis 45:2 And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians heard, and the 
house of Pharaoh heard. 

Genesis 45:3 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth 
my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they 
were troubled at his presence. 


Genesis 45:4 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I 
pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your 
brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. 

Genesis 45:5 And now be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, 
that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve 
life. 

Genesis 45:6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: 
and there are yet five years, in which there shall be neither plowing 
nor harvest. 

Genesis 45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a remnant 
in the earth, and to save you alive by a great deliverance. 

Genesis 45:8 So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and 
he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and 
ruler over all the land of Egypt. 

Genesis 45:9 Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, 
Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come 
down unto me, tarry not; 

Genesis 45:10 and thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou 
shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's 
children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast: 

Genesis 45:11 and there will I nourish thee; for there are yet five 
years of famine; lest thou come to poverty, thou, and thy household, 
and all that thou hast. 

Genesis 45:12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my 
brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you. 

Genesis 45:13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, 
and of all that ye have seen: and ye shall haste and bring down my 
father hither. 

Genesis 45:14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and 
wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck. 

Genesis 45:15 And he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: 
and after that his brethren talked with him. 


Genesis 45:16 And the report thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, 
saying, Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and 
his servants. 

Genesis 45:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, 
This do ye: lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 

Genesis 45:18 and take your father and your households, and come 
unto me: and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye 
shall eat the fat of the land. 

Genesis 45:19 Now thou art commanded, this do ye: take you 
wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your 
wives, and bring your father, and come. 

Genesis 45:20 Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land 
of Egypt is yours. 

Genesis 45:21 And the sons of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them 
wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them 
provision for the way. 

Genesis 45:22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; 
but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five 
changes of raiment. 

Genesis 45:23 And to his father he sent after this manner: ten asses 
laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she-asses laden with 
grain and bread and provision for his father by the way. 

Genesis 45:24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and 
he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way. 

Genesis 45:25 And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the 
land of Canaan unto Jacob their father. 

Genesis 45:26 And they told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he 
is ruler over all the land of Egypt. And his heart fainted, for he 
believed them not. 

Genesis 45:27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he 
had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had 
sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived: 

Genesis 45:28 and Israel said, It is enough; Joseph my son is yet 
alive: I will go and see him before I die. 


Genesis 46 

Genesis 46:1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and 
came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father 
Isaac. 

Genesis 46:2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, 
and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I. 

Genesis 46:3 And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not 
to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 

Genesis 46:4 I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also 
surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine 
eyes. 

Genesis 46:5 And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba: and the sons of 
Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, 
in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 

Genesis 46:6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they 
had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all 
his seed with him: 

Genesis 46:7 his sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and 
his sons's daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt. 

Genesis 46:8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, who 
came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's first-born. 

Genesis 46:9 And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, and Pallu, and 
Hezron, and Carmi. 

Genesis 46:10 And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and 
Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish 
woman. 

Genesis 46:11 And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 

Genesis 46:12 And the sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and 
Perez, and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And 
the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 


Genesis 46:13 And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puvah, and Iob, 
and Shimron. 

Genesis 46:14 And the sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and 
Jahleel. 

Genesis 46:15 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bare unto Jacob 
in Paddan-aram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and 
his daughters were thirty and three. 

Genesis 46:16 And the sons of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and 
Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli. 

Genesis 46:17 And the sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, 
and Beriah, and Serah their sister; and the sons of Beriah: Heber, and 
Malchiel. 

Genesis 46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to 
Leah his daughter; and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls. 

Genesis 46:19 The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife: Joseph and 
Benjamin. 

Genesis 46:20 And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born 
Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Poti-phera 
priest of On, bare unto him. 

Genesis 46:21 And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and 
Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, 
and Ard. 

Genesis 46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob: 
all the souls were fourteen. 

Genesis 46:23 And the sons of Dan: Hushim. 

Genesis 46:24 And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and 
Jezer, and Shillem. 

Genesis 46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave unto 
Rachel his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob: all the souls were 
seven. 

Genesis 46:26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, that 
came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were 
threescore and six; 


Genesis 46:27 and the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in 
Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, that came 
into Egypt, were threescore and ten. 

Genesis 46:28 And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to show 
the way before him unto Goshen; and they came into the land of 
Goshen. 

Genesis 46:29 And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to 
meet Israel his father, to Goshen; and he presented himself unto him, 
and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while. 

Genesis 46:30 And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I 
have seen thy face, that thou art yet alive. 

Genesis 46:31 And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his 
father's house, I will go up, and tell Pharaoh, and will say unto him, 
My brethren, and my father's house, who were in the land of Canaan, 
are come unto me; 

Genesis 46:32 and the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers 
of cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all 
that they have. 

Genesis 46:33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call 
you, and shall say, What is your occupation? 

Genesis 46:34 that ye shall say, Thy servants have been keepers of 
cattle from our youth even until now, both we, and our fathers: that 
ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an 
abomination unto the Egyptians. 

Genesis 47 

Genesis 47:1 Then Joseph went in and told Pharaoh, and said, My 
father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that 
they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are 
in the land of Goshen. 

Genesis 47:2 And from among his brethren he took five men, and 
presented them unto Pharaoh. 


Genesis 47:3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your 
occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, 
both we, and our fathers. 

Genesis 47:4 And they said unto Pharaoh, To sojourn in the land are 
we come; for there is no pasture for thy servants' flocks; for the 
famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let 
thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen. 

Genesis 47:5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and 
thy brethren are come unto thee: 

Genesis 47:6 the land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land 
make thy father and thy brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let 
them dwell: and if thou knowest any able men among them, then 
make them rulers over my cattle. 

Genesis 47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him 
before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 

Genesis 47:8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How many are the days 
of the years of thy life? 

Genesis 47:9 And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of 
my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty years: few and evil have been 
the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained unto the 
days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their 
pilgrimage. 

Genesis 47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from the 
presence of Pharaoh. 

Genesis 47:11 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and 
gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in 
the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded. 

Genesis 47:12 And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and 
all his father's household, with bread, according to their families. 

Genesis 47:13 And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine 
was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan 
fainted by reason of the famine. 

Genesis 47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found 
in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the grain which 
they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. 


Genesis 47:15 And when the money was all spent in the land of 
Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, 
and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for 
[our] money faileth. 

Genesis 47:16 And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you 
for your cattle, if money fail. 

Genesis 47:17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph; and Joseph 
gave them bread in exchange for the horses, and for the flocks, and 
for the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread in 
exchange for all their cattle for that year. 

Genesis 47:18 And when that year was ended, they came unto him 
the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide from my lord, 
how that our money is all spent; and the herds of cattle are my lord's; 
there is nought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our 
lands: 

Genesis 47:19 wherefore should we die before thine eyes, both we 
and our land? buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will 
be servants unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not 
die, and that the land be not desolate. 

Genesis 47:20 So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; 
for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine was 
sore upon them: and the land became Pharaoh's. 

Genesis 47:21 And as for the people, he removed them to the cities 
from one end of the border of Egypt even to the other end thereof. 

Genesis 47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not: for the 
priests had a portion from Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which 
Pharaoh gave them; wherefore they sold not their land. 

Genesis 47:23 Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have 
bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for 
you, and ye shall sow the land. 

Genesis 47:24 And it shall come to pass at the ingatherings, that ye 
shall give a fifth unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for 
seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, 
and for food for your little ones. 


Genesis 47:25 And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find 
favor in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants. 

Genesis 47:26 And Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of 
Egypt unto this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth; only the land 
of the priests alone became not Pharaoh's. 

Genesis 47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the land of 
Goshen; and they gat them possessions therein, and were fruitful, and 
multiplied exceedingly. 

Genesis 47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: 
so the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were a hundred forty and 
seven years. 

Genesis 47:29 And the time drew near that Israel must die: and he 
called his son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found favor in 
thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly 
and truly with me: bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt; 

Genesis 47:30 but when I sleep with my fathers, thou shalt carry me 
out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying-place. And he said, I will 
do as thou hast said. 

Genesis 47:31 And he said, Swear unto me: and he sware unto him. 
And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head. 

Genesis 48 

Genesis 48:1 And it came to pass after these things, that one said to 
Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons, 
Manasseh and Ephraim. 

Genesis 48:2 And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph 
cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the 
bed. 

Genesis 48:3 And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared 
unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 

Genesis 48:4 and said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and 
multiply thee, and I will make of thee a company of peoples, and will 
give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession. 


Genesis 48:5 And now thy two sons, who were born unto thee in the 
land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine; Ephraim 
and Manasseh, even as Reuben and Simeon, shall be mine. 

Genesis 48:6 And thy issue, that thou begettest after them, shall be 
thine; they shall be called after the name of their brethren in their 
inheritance. 

Genesis 48:7 And as for me, when I came from Paddan, Rachel died 
by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when there was still some 
distance to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way to 
Ephrath (the same is Beth-lehem). 

Genesis 48:8 And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are 
these? 

Genesis 48:9 And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, 
whom God hath given me here. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, 
unto me, and I will bless them. 

Genesis 48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he 
could not see. And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed 
them, and embraced them. 

Genesis 48:11 And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see 
thy face: and, lo, God hath let me see thy seed also. 

Genesis 48:12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees; 
and he bowed himself with his face to the earth. 

Genesis 48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand 
toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward 
Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him. 

Genesis 48:14 And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it 
upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon 
Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the 
first-born. 

Genesis 48:15 And he blessed Joseph, and said, The God before 
whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God who hath fed 
me all my life long unto this day, 

Genesis 48:16 the angel who hath redeemed me from all evil, bless 
the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my 


fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the 
midst of the earth. 

Genesis 48:17 And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right 
hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his 
father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's 
head. 

Genesis 48:18 And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father; for 
this is the first-born; put thy right hand upon his head. 

Genesis 48:19 And his father refused, and said, I know [it], my son, I 
know [it]. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: 
howbeit his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed 
shall become a multitude of nations. 

Genesis 48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee will 
Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and 
he set Ephraim before Manasseh. 

Genesis 48:21 And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God 
will be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers. 

Genesis 48:22 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy 
brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword 
and with my bow. 

Genesis 49 

Genesis 49:1 And Jacob called unto his sons, and said: gather 
yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in 
the latter days. 

Genesis 49:2 Assemble yourselves, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; And 
hearken unto Israel your father. 

Genesis 49:3 Reuben, thou art my first-born, my might, and the 
beginning of my strength; The pre-eminence of dignity, and the preeminence 
of power. 

Genesis 49:4 Boiling over as water, thou shalt not have the preeminence; 
Because thou wentest up to thy father's bed; Then defiledst 
thou it: he went up to my couch. 


Genesis 49:5 Simeon and Levi are brethren; Weapons of violence are 
their swords. 

Genesis 49:6 O my soul, come not thou into their council; Unto their 
assembly, my glory, be not thou united; For in their anger they slew a 
man, And in their self-will they hocked an ox. 

Genesis 49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; And their 
wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, And scatter them 
in Israel. 

Genesis 49:8 Judah, thee shall thy brethren praise: Thy hand shall be 
on the neck of thine enemies; Thy father's sons shall bow down 
before thee. 

Genesis 49:9 Judah is a lion's whelp; From the prey, my son, thou art 
gone up: He stooped down, he couched as a lion, And as a lioness; 
who shall rouse him up? 

Genesis 49:10 The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, Nor the 
ruler's staff from between his feet, Until Shiloh come: And unto him 
shall the obedience of the peoples be. 

Genesis 49:11 Binding his foal unto the vine, And his ass's colt unto 
the choice vine; He hath washed his garments in wine, And his 
vesture in the blood of grapes: 

Genesis 49:12 His eyes shall be red with wine, And his teeth white 
with milk. 

Genesis 49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; And he 
shall be for a haven of ships; And his border shall be upon Sidon. 

Genesis 49:14 Issachar is a strong ass, Couching down between the 
sheepfolds: 

Genesis 49:15 And he saw a resting-place that it was good, And the 
land that it was pleasant; And he bowed his shoulder to bear, And 
became a servant under taskwork. 

Genesis 49:16 Dan shall judge his people, As one of the tribes of 
Israel. 

Genesis 49:17 Dan shall be a serpent in the way, An adder in the 
path, That biteth the horse's heels, So that his rider falleth backward. 


Genesis 49:18 I have waited for thy salvation, O Jehovah. 

Genesis 49:19 Gad, a troop shall press upon him; But he shall press 
upon their heel. 

Genesis 49:20 Out of the Asher his bread shall be fat, And he shall 
yield royal dainties. 

Genesis 49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose: He giveth goodly words. 

Genesis 49:22 Joseph is a fruitful bough, A fruitful bough by a 
fountain; His branches run over the wall. 

Genesis 49:23 The archers have sorely grieved him, And shot at him, 
and persecute him: 

Genesis 49:24 But his bow abode in strength, And the arms of his 
hands were made strong, By the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, 
(From thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel), 

Genesis 49:25 Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee, 
And by the Almighty, who shall bless thee, With blessings of heaven 
above, Blessings of the deep that coucheth beneath, Blessings of the 
breasts, and of the womb. 

Genesis 49:26 The blessings of thy father Have prevailed above the 
blessings of my progenitors Unto the utmost bound of the everlasting 
hills: They shall be on the head of Joseph, And on the crown of the 
head of him that was separate from his brethren. 

Genesis 49:27 Benjamin is a wolf that raveneth: In the morning she 
shall devour the prey, And at even he shall divide the spoil. 

Genesis 49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it 
that their father spake unto them and blessed them; every one 
according to his blessing he blessed them. 

Genesis 49:29 And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be 
gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is 
in the field of Ephron the Hittite, 

Genesis 49:30 in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is 
before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with 
the field from Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a burying-place. 


Genesis 49:31 there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there 
they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah: 

Genesis 49:32 the field and the cave that is therein, which was 
purchased from the children of Heth. 

Genesis 49:33 And when Jacob made an end of charging his sons, he 
gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was 
gathered unto his people. 

Genesis 50 

Genesis 50:1 And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon 
him, and kissed him. 

Genesis 50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to 
embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel. 

Genesis 50:3 And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are 
fulfilled the days of embalming: and the Egyptians wept for him 
three-score and ten days. 

Genesis 50:4 And when the days of weeping for him were past, 
Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found 
favor in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 

Genesis 50:5 My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my 
grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt 
thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my 
father, and I will come again. 

Genesis 50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, 
according as he made thee swear. 

Genesis 50:7 And Joseph went up to bury his father; and with him 
went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all 
the elders of the land of Egypt, 

Genesis 50:8 and all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his 
father's house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, 
they left in the land of Goshen. 

Genesis 50:9 And there went up with him both chariots and 
horsemen: and it was a very great company. 


Genesis 50:10 And they came to the threshing-floor of Atad, which 
is beyond the Jordan, and there they lamented with a very great and 
sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days. 

Genesis 50:11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, 
saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous 
mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, 
which is beyond the Jordan. 

Genesis 50:12 And his sons did unto him according as he 
commanded them: 

Genesis 50:13 for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and 
buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham 
bought with the field, for a possession of a burying-place, of Ephron 
the Hittite, before Mamre. 

Genesis 50:14 And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, 
and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried 
his father. 

Genesis 50:15 And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was 
dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us, and will fully 
requite us all the evil which we did unto him. 

Genesis 50:16 And they sent a message unto Joseph, saying, Thy 
father did command before he died, saying, 

Genesis 50:17 So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, 
the transgression of thy brethren, and their sin, for that they did unto 
thee evil. And now, we pray thee, forgive the transgression of the 
servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake 
unto him. 

Genesis 50:18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his 
face; and they said, Behold, we are thy servants. 

Genesis 50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the 
place of God? 

Genesis 50:20 And as for you, ye meant evil against me; but God 
meant it for good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much 
people alive. 

Genesis 50:21 Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and 
your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them. 


Genesis 50:22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: 
and Joseph lived a hundred and ten years. 

Genesis 50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third 
generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were 
born upon Joseph's knees. 

Genesis 50:24 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die; but God will 
surely visit you, and bring you up out of this land unto the land which 
he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. 

Genesis 50:25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, 
saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones 
from hence. 

Genesis 50:26 So Joseph died, being a hundred and ten years old: 
and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. 